---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>The Destruction of Jericho</h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 2:1">⚓</a>Jericho was securely shut up because of the children of Israel; none went out, and none came in. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_2"><sup>2</sup>And the Lord said to Joshua: “See! <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 2:9, 24; 8:1">⚓</a>I have given Jericho into your hand, its <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 7:24">⚓</a>king, <i>and</i> the mighty men of valor. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_3"><sup>3</sup>You shall march around the city, all <i>you</i> men of war; you shall go all around the city once. This you shall do six days. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_4"><sup>4</sup>And seven priests shall bear seven <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 25:9; Judg. 7:16, 22">⚓</a>trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark. But the seventh day you shall march around the city <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 18:43; 2 Kin. 4:35; 5:10">⚓</a>seven times, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 10:8">⚓</a>the priests shall blow the trumpets. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_5"><sup>5</sup>It shall come to pass, when they make a long <i>blast</i> with the ram’s horn, <i>and</i> when you hear the sound of the trumpet, that all the people shall shout with a great shout; then the wall of the city will fall down flat. And the people shall go up every man straight before him.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them, “Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of the Lord.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_7"><sup>7</sup>And he said to the people, “Proceed, and march around the city, and let him who is armed advance before the ark of the Lord.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>So it was, when Joshua had spoken to the people, that the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the Lord advanced and blew the trumpets, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord followed them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_9"><sup>9</sup>The armed men went before the priests who blew the trumpets, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 10:25">⚓</a>and the rear guard came after the ark, while <i>the</i> <i>priests</i> continued blowing the trumpets. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_10"><sup>10</sup>Now Joshua had commanded the people, saying, “You shall not shout or make any noise with your voice, nor shall a word proceed out of your mouth, until the day I say to you, ‘Shout!’ Then you shall shout.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_11"><sup>11</sup>So he had <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 4:11">⚓</a>the ark of the Lord circle the city, going around <i>it</i> once. Then they came into the camp and lodged in the camp.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>And Joshua rose early in the morning, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 31:25">⚓</a>and the priests took up the ark of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_13"><sup>13</sup>Then seven priests bearing seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of the Lord went on continually and blew with the trumpets. And the armed men went before them. But the rear guard came after the ark of the Lord, while <i>the</i> <i>priests</i> continued blowing the trumpets. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_14"><sup>14</sup>And the second day they marched around the city once and returned to the camp. So they did six days.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>But it came to pass on the seventh day that they rose early, about the dawning of the day, and marched around the city seven times in the same manner. On that day only they marched around the city seven times. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_16"><sup>16</sup>And the seventh time it happened, when the priests blew the trumpets, that Joshua said to the people: “Shout, for the Lord has given you the city! </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_17"><sup>17</sup>Now the city shall be <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 13:17; Josh. 7:1">⚓</a>doomed by the Lord to destruction, it and all who <i>are</i> in it. Only <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 2:1; Matt. 1:5">⚓</a>Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all who <i>are</i> with her in the house, because <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 2:4, 6">⚓</a>she hid the messengers that we sent. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_18"><sup>18</sup>And you, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 7:26">⚓</a>by all means abstain from the accursed things, lest you become accursed when you take of the accursed things, and make the camp of Israel a curse, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 7:1, 12, 25; 1 Kin. 18:17, 18; (Jon. 1:12)">⚓</a>and trouble it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_19"><sup>19</sup>But all the silver and gold, and vessels of bronze and iron, <i>are</i> consecrated to the Lord; they shall come into the treasury of the Lord.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>So the people shouted when <i>the</i> <i>priests</i> blew the trumpets. And it happened when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, that <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Heb. 11:30">⚓</a>the wall fell down flat. Then the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_21"><sup>21</sup>And they <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 7:2; 20:16, 17">⚓</a>utterly destroyed all that <i>was</i> in the city, both man and woman, young and old, ox and sheep and donkey, with the edge of the sword.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_22"> <sup>22</sup>But Joshua had said to the two men who had spied out the country, “Go into the harlot’s house, and from there bring out the woman and all that she has, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 2:12–19; Heb. 11:31">⚓</a>as you swore to her.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_23"><sup>23</sup>And the young men who had been spies went in and brought out Rahab, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 2:13">⚓</a>her father, her mother, her brothers, and all that she had. So they brought out all her relatives and left them outside the camp of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_24"><sup>24</sup>But they burned the city and all that <i>was</i> in it with fire. Only the silver and gold, and the vessels of bronze and iron, they put into the treasury of the house of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_25"><sup>25</sup>And Joshua spared Rahab the harlot, her father’s household, and all that she had. So <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Matt. 1:5)">⚓</a>she dwells in Israel to this day, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then Joshua charged <i>them</i> at that time, saying, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 16:34">⚓</a>“Cursed <i>be</i> the man before the Lord who rises up and builds this city Jericho; he shall lay its foundation with his firstborn, and with his youngest he shall set up its gates.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_27"> <sup>27</sup>So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame spread throughout all the country.<br/></span>
