---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Eastern Tribes Return to Their Lands</h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Joshua called the Reubenites, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh, </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_2"><sup>2</sup>and said to them: “You have kept <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 32:20–22; Deut. 3:18">⚓</a>all that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 1:12–18">⚓</a>and have obeyed my voice in all that I commanded you. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_3"><sup>3</sup>You have not left your brethren these many days, up to this day, but have kept the charge of the commandment of the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_4"><sup>4</sup>And now the Lord your God has given <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 21:44">⚓</a>rest to your brethren, as He promised them; now therefore, return and go to your tents <i>and</i> to the land of your possession, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 32:33">⚓</a>which Moses the servant of the Lord gave you on the other side of the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_5"><sup>5</sup>But <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 6:6, 17; 11:22; Jer. 12:16">⚓</a>take careful heed to do the commandment and the law which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 10:12; 11:13, 22">⚓</a>to love the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, to keep His commandments, to hold fast to Him, and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_6"><sup>6</sup>So Joshua <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 47:7; Ex. 39:43; Josh. 14:13; 2 Sam. 6:18; Luke 24:50">⚓</a>blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their tents.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now to half the tribe of Manasseh Moses had given a possession in Bashan, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 17:1–13">⚓</a>but to the <i>other</i> half of it Joshua gave <i>a</i> <i>possession</i> among their brethren on this side of the Jordan, westward. And indeed, when Joshua sent them away to their tents, he blessed them, </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_8"><sup>8</sup>and spoke to them, saying, “Return with much riches to your tents, with very much livestock, with silver, with gold, with bronze, with iron, and with very much clothing. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 31:27; 1 Sam. 30:24">⚓</a>Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brethren.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_9"> <sup>9</sup>So the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the children of Israel at Shiloh, which <i>is</i> in the land of Canaan, to go to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 32:1, 26, 29">⚓</a>the country of Gilead, to the land of their possession, which they had obtained according to the word of the Lord by the hand of Moses.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>An Altar by the Jordan</h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>And when they came to the region of the Jordan which <i>is</i> in the land of Canaan, the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh built an altar there by the Jordan—a great, impressive altar. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_11"><sup>11</sup>Now the children of Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 13:12–18; Judg. 20:12, 13">⚓</a>heard <i>someone</i> say, “Behold, the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh have built an altar on the frontier of the land of Canaan, in the region of the Jordan—on the children of Israel’s side.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_12"><sup>12</sup>And when the children of Israel heard <i>of</i> <i>it,</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 18:1; Judg. 20:1">⚓</a>the whole congregation of the children of Israel gathered together at Shiloh to go to war against them.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then the children of Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 13:14; Judg. 20:12">⚓</a>sent <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 6:25; Num. 25:7, 11–13">⚓</a>Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to half the tribe of Manasseh, into the land of Gilead, </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_14"><sup>14</sup>and with him ten rulers, one ruler each from the chief house of every tribe of Israel; and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:4">⚓</a>each one <i>was</i> the head of the house of his father among the divisions of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_15"><sup>15</sup>Then they came to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to half the tribe of Manasseh, to the land of Gilead, and they spoke with them, saying, </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_16"><sup>16</sup>“Thus says the whole congregation of the Lord: ‘What <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 12:5–14">⚓</a>treachery <i>is</i> this that you have committed against the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following the Lord, in that you have built for yourselves an altar, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 17:8, 9">⚓</a>that you might rebel this day against the Lord? </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_17"><sup>17</sup><i>Is</i> the iniquity <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 25:1–9; Deut. 4:3">⚓</a>of Peor not enough for us, from which we are not cleansed till this day, although there was a plague in the congregation of the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_18"><sup>18</sup>but that you must turn away this day from following the Lord? And it shall be, if you rebel today against the Lord, that tomorrow <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 16:22">⚓</a>He will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_19"><sup>19</sup>Nevertheless, if the land of your possession <i>is</i> unclean, <i>then</i> cross over to the land of the possession of the Lord, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 18:1">⚓</a>where the Lord’s tabernacle stands, and take possession among us; but do not rebel against the Lord, nor rebel against us, by building yourselves an altar besides the altar of the Lord our God. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_20"><sup>20</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 7:1–26">⚓</a>Did not Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the accursed thing, and wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel? And that man did not perish alone in his iniquity.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh answered and said to the heads of the divisions of Israel: </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_22"><sup>22</sup>“The Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 4:35; 10:17; Is. 44:8; 45:5; 46:9; (1 Cor. 8:5, 6)">⚓</a>God of gods, the Lord God of gods, He <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Job 10:7; 23:10; Jer. 12:3; 2 Cor. 11:11, 31)">⚓</a>knows, and let Israel itself know—if <i>it</i> <i>is</i> in rebellion, or if in treachery against the Lord, do not save us this day. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_23"><sup>23</sup>If we have built ourselves an altar to turn from following the Lord, or if to offer on it burnt offerings or grain offerings, or if to offer peace offerings on it, let the Lord Himself <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 18:19; 1 Sam. 20:16">⚓</a>require <i>an</i> <i>account.</i></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_24"><sup>24</sup>But in fact we have done it for fear, for a reason, saying, ‘In time to come your descendants may speak to our descendants, saying, “What have you to do with the Lord God of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_25"><sup>25</sup>For the Lord has made the Jordan a border between you and us, <i>you</i> children of Reuben and children of Gad. You have no part in the Lord.” So your descendants would make our descendants cease fearing the Lord.’ </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_26"><sup>26</sup>Therefore we said, ‘Let us now prepare to build ourselves an altar, not for burnt offering nor for sacrifice, </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_27"><sup>27</sup>but <i>that</i> it <i>may</i> <i>be</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 31:48; Josh. 22:34; 24:27">⚓</a>a witness between you and us and our generations after us, that we may <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 12:5, 14">⚓</a>perform the service of the Lord before Him with our burnt offerings, with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings; that your descendants may not say to our descendants in time to come, “You have no part in the Lord.” ’ </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_28"><sup>28</sup>Therefore we said that it will be, when they say <i>this</i> to us or to our generations in time to come, that we may say, ‘Here is the replica of the altar of the Lord which our fathers made, though not for burnt offerings nor for sacrifices; but it <i>is</i> a witness between you and us.’ </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_29"><sup>29</sup>Far be it from us that we should rebel against the Lord, and turn from following the Lord this day, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 12:13, 14">⚓</a>to build an altar for burnt offerings, for grain offerings, or for sacrifices, besides the altar of the Lord our God which <i>is</i> before His tabernacle.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_30"> <sup>30</sup>Now when Phinehas the priest and the rulers of the congregation, the heads of the divisions of Israel who <i>were</i> with him, heard the words that the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the children of Manasseh spoke, it pleased them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_31"><sup>31</sup>Then Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the children of Manasseh, “This day we perceive that the Lord<i>is</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 25:8; Lev. 26:11, 12; 2 Chr. 15:2; Zech. 8:23">⚓</a>among us, because you have not committed this treachery against the Lord. Now you have delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of the Lord.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_32"> <sup>32</sup>And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the rulers, returned from the children of Reuben and the children of Gad, from the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought back word to them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_22_33"><sup>33</sup>So the thing pleased the children of Israel, and the children of Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Chr. 29:20; Neh. 8:6; Dan. 2:19; Luke 2:28">⚓</a>blessed God; they spoke no more of going against them in battle, to destroy the land where the children of Reuben and Gad dwelt.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_22_34"> <sup>34</sup>The children of Reuben and the children of Gad called the altar, <i>Witness,</i> “For <i>it</i> <i>is</i> a witness between us that the Lord<i>is</i> God.”<br/></span>
