---
translation: NKJV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Offerings of the Leaders</h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now it came to pass, when Moses had finished <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 40:17–33">⚓</a>setting up the tabernacle, that he <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 8:10, 11">⚓</a>anointed it and consecrated it and all its furnishings, and the altar and all its utensils; so he anointed them and consecrated them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_2"><sup>2</sup>Then <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:4">⚓</a>the leaders of Israel, the heads of their fathers’ houses, who <i>were</i> the leaders of the tribes and over those who were numbered, made an offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_3"><sup>3</sup>And they brought their offering before the Lord, six covered carts and twelve oxen, a cart for <i>every</i> two of the leaders, and for each one an ox; and they presented them before the tabernacle.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_5"><sup>5</sup>“Accept <i>these</i> from them, that they may be used in doing the work of the tabernacle of meeting; and you shall give them to the Levites, <i>to</i> every man according to his service.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_6"><sup>6</sup>So Moses took the carts and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_7"><sup>7</sup>Two carts and four oxen <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 4:24–28">⚓</a>he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_8"><sup>8</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 4:29–33">⚓</a>and four carts and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the authority of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_9"><sup>9</sup>But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because theirs <i>was</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 4:15">⚓</a>the service of the holy things, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 4:6–14">⚓</a><i>which</i> they carried on their shoulders.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now the leaders offered <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 7:1; Deut. 20:5; 1 Kin. 8:63; 2 Chr. 7:5, 9; Ezra 6:16; Neh. 12:27">⚓</a>the dedication <i>offering</i> for the altar when it was anointed; so the leaders offered their offering before the altar. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_11"><sup>11</sup>For the Lord said to Moses, “They shall offer their offering, one leader each day, for the dedication of the altar.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>And the one who offered his offering on the first day <i>was</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 2:3">⚓</a>Nahshon the son of Amminadab, from the tribe of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_13"><sup>13</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 30:13">⚓</a>the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 2:1">⚓</a>grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_14"><sup>14</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 30:34, 35">⚓</a>incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_15"><sup>15</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 1:2">⚓</a>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 12:5">⚓</a>in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_16"><sup>16</sup>one kid of the goats as a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 4:23">⚓</a>sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_17"><sup>17</sup>and for <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 3:1">⚓</a>the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_18"> <sup>18</sup>On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, leader of Issachar, presented <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_19"><sup>19</sup><i>For</i> his offering he offered one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_20"><sup>20</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_21"><sup>21</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_22"><sup>22</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_23"><sup>23</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_24"> <sup>24</sup>On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, leader of the children of Zebulun, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_25"><sup>25</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_26"><sup>26</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_27"><sup>27</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_28"><sup>28</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_29"><sup>29</sup>and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_30"> <sup>30</sup>On the fourth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:5; 2:10">⚓</a>Elizur the son of Shedeur, leader of the children of Reuben, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_31"><sup>31</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_32"><sup>32</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_33"><sup>33</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_34"><sup>34</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_35"><sup>35</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_36"> <sup>36</sup>On the fifth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:6; 2:12; 7:41">⚓</a>Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, leader of the children of Simeon, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_37"><sup>37</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_38"><sup>38</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_39"><sup>39</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_40"><sup>40</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_41"><sup>41</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_42"> <sup>42</sup>On the sixth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:14; 2:14; 10:20">⚓</a>Eliasaph the son of Deuel, leader of the children of Gad, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_43"><sup>43</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_44"><sup>44</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_45"><sup>45</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 40:6">⚓</a>a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_46"><sup>46</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_47"><sup>47</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_48"> <sup>48</sup>On the seventh day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:10; 2:18; 1 Chr. 7:26">⚓</a>Elishama the son of Ammihud, leader of the children of Ephraim, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_49"><sup>49</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_50"><sup>50</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_51"><sup>51</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_52"><sup>52</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_53"><sup>53</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_54"> <sup>54</sup>On the eighth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:10; 2:20">⚓</a>Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, leader of the children of Manasseh, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_55"><sup>55</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_56"><sup>56</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_57"><sup>57</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_58"><sup>58</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_59"><sup>59</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_60"> <sup>60</sup>On the ninth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:11; 2:22">⚓</a>Abidan the son of Gideoni, leader of the children of Benjamin, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_61"><sup>61</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_62"><sup>62</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_63"><sup>63</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_64"><sup>64</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_65"><sup>65</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_66"> <sup>66</sup>On the tenth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:12; 2:25">⚓</a>Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, leader of the children of Dan, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_67"><sup>67</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_68"><sup>68</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_69"><sup>69</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_70"><sup>70</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_71"><sup>71</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_72"> <sup>72</sup>On the eleventh day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:13; 2:27">⚓</a>Pagiel the son of Ocran, leader of the children of Asher, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_73"><sup>73</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_74"><sup>74</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_75"><sup>75</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_76"><sup>76</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_77"><sup>77</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_78"> <sup>78</sup>On the twelfth day <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:15; 2:29">⚓</a>Ahira the son of Enan, leader of the children of Naphtali, <i>presented</i> <i>an</i> <i>offering.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_79"><sup>79</sup>His offering <i>was</i> one silver platter, the weight of which <i>was</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels,</i> and one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_80"><sup>80</sup>one gold pan of ten <i>shekels,</i> full of incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_81"><sup>81</sup>one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, as a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_82"><sup>82</sup>one kid of the goats as a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_83"><sup>83</sup>and as the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This <i>was</i> the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_84"> <sup>84</sup>This <i>was</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 7:10">⚓</a>the dedication <i>offering</i> for the altar from the leaders of Israel, when it was anointed: twelve silver platters, twelve silver bowls, and twelve gold pans. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_85"><sup>85</sup>Each silver platter <i>weighed</i> one hundred and thirty <i>shekels</i> and each bowl seventy <i>shekels.</i> All the silver of the vessels <i>weighed</i> two thousand four hundred <i>shekels,</i> according to the shekel of the sanctuary. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_86"><sup>86</sup>The twelve gold pans full of incense <i>weighed</i> ten <i>shekels</i> apiece, according to the shekel of the sanctuary; all the gold of the pans <i>weighed</i> one hundred and twenty <i>shekels.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_87"><sup>87</sup>All the oxen for the burnt offering <i>were</i> twelve young bulls, the rams twelve, the male lambs in their first year twelve, with their grain offering, and the kids of the goats as a sin offering twelve. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_88"><sup>88</sup>And all the oxen for the sacrifice of peace offerings were twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, and the lambs in their first year sixty. This <i>was</i> the dedication <i>offering</i> for the altar after it was <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 7:1, 10">⚓</a>anointed.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_89"> <sup>89</sup>Now when Moses went into the tabernacle of meeting <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Ex. 33:9, 11); Num. 12:8">⚓</a>to speak with Him, he heard <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 25:21, 22">⚓</a>the voice of One speaking to him from above the mercy seat that <i>was</i> on the ark of the Testimony, from <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 80:1; 99:1">⚓</a>between the two cherubim; thus He spoke to him.<br/></span>
