---
translation: NKJV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
---

<div class="title"><h1>29</h1><h3>Offerings at the Feast of Trumpets</h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_29_1"> <sup>1</sup>‘And in the seventh month, on the first <i>day</i> of the month, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no customary work. For you <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 23:16; 34:22; Lev. 23:23–25">⚓</a>it is a day of blowing the trumpets. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_2"><sup>2</sup>You shall offer a burnt offering as a sweet aroma to the Lord: one young bull, one ram, <i>and</i> seven lambs in their first year, without blemish. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_3"><sup>3</sup>Their grain offering <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths <i>of</i> <i>an</i> <i>ephah</i> for the bull, two-tenths for the ram, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_4"><sup>4</sup>and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_5"><sup>5</sup>also one kid of the goats <i>as</i> a sin offering, to make atonement for you; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_6"><sup>6</sup>besides <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 28:11–15">⚓</a>the burnt offering with its grain offering for the New Moon, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 28:3">⚓</a>the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 15:11, 12">⚓</a>according to their ordinance, as a sweet aroma, an offering made by fire to the Lord.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Offerings on the Day of Atonement</h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_29_7"> <sup>7</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 16:29–34; 23:26–32">⚓</a>‘On the tenth <i>day</i> of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 35:13; Is. 58:5">⚓</a>afflict your souls; you shall not do any work. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_8"><sup>8</sup>You shall present a burnt offering to the Lord<i>as</i> a sweet aroma: one young bull, one ram, <i>and</i> seven lambs in their first year. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 28:19">⚓</a>Be sure they are without blemish. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_9"><sup>9</sup>Their grain offering <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> <i>of</i> fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths <i>of</i> <i>an</i> <i>ephah</i> for the bull, two-tenths for the one ram, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_10"><sup>10</sup>and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_11"><sup>11</sup>also one kid of the goats <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 16:3, 5">⚓</a>the sin offering for atonement, the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Offerings at the Feast of Tabernacles</h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_29_12"> <sup>12</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 23:33–35; Deut. 16:13–15; Ezek. 45:25">⚓</a>‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no customary work, and you shall keep a feast to the Lord seven days. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_13"><sup>13</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 3:4">⚓</a>You shall present a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a sweet aroma to the Lord: thirteen young bulls, two rams, <i>and</i> fourteen lambs in their first year. They shall be without blemish. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_14"><sup>14</sup>Their grain offering <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> <i>of</i> fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths <i>of</i> <i>an</i> <i>ephah</i> for each of the thirteen bulls, two-tenths for each of the two rams, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_15"><sup>15</sup>and one-tenth for each of the fourteen lambs; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_16"><sup>16</sup>also one kid of the goats <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_17"> <sup>17</sup>‘On the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 23:36">⚓</a>second day <i>present</i> twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs in their first year without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_18"><sup>18</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, by their number, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 15:12; 28:7, 14; 29:3, 4, 9, 10">⚓</a>according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_19"><sup>19</sup>also one kid of the goats <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_20"> <sup>20</sup>‘On the third day <i>present</i> eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs in their first year without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_21"><sup>21</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, by their number, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 29:18">⚓</a>according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_22"><sup>22</sup>also one goat <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_23"> <sup>23</sup>‘On the fourth day <i>present</i> ten bulls, two rams, <i>and</i> fourteen lambs in their first year, without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_24"><sup>24</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, by their number, according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_25"><sup>25</sup>also one kid of the goats <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_26"> <sup>26</sup>‘On the fifth day <i>present</i> nine bulls, two rams, <i>and</i> fourteen lambs in their first year without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_27"><sup>27</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, by their number, according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_28"><sup>28</sup>also one goat <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_29"> <sup>29</sup>‘On the sixth day <i>present</i> eight bulls, two rams, <i>and</i> fourteen lambs in their first year without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_30"><sup>30</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, by their number, according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_31"><sup>31</sup>also one goat <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_32"> <sup>32</sup>‘On the seventh day <i>present</i> seven bulls, two rams, <i>and</i> fourteen lambs in their first year without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_33"><sup>33</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, by their number, according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_34"><sup>34</sup>also one goat <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_35"> <sup>35</sup>‘On the eighth day you shall have a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 23:36">⚓</a>sacred assembly. You shall do no customary work. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_36"><sup>36</sup>You shall present a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a sweet aroma to the Lord: one bull, one ram, seven lambs in their first year without blemish, </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_37"><sup>37</sup>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, by their number, according to the ordinance; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_38"><sup>38</sup>also one goat <i>as</i> a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_39"> <sup>39</sup>‘These you shall present to the Lord at <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 23:1–44; 1 Chr. 23:31; 2 Chr. 31:3; Ezra 3:5; Neh. 10:33; Is. 1:14">⚓</a>your appointed feasts (besides your <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 7:16; 22:18, 21, 23; 23:38">⚓</a>vowed offerings and your freewill offerings) as your burnt offerings and your grain offerings, as your drink offerings and your peace offerings.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_40"> <sup>40</sup>So Moses told the children of Israel everything, just as the Lord commanded Moses.<br/></span>
