---
translation: NKJV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>The Law Concerning Vows</h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Moses spoke to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 1:4, 16; 7:2">⚓</a>the heads of the tribes concerning the children of Israel, saying, “This <i>is</i> the thing which the Lord has commanded: </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_2"><sup>2</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 27:2; Deut. 23:21–23; Judg. 11:30, 31, 35; Eccl. 5:4">⚓</a>If a man makes a vow to the Lord, or <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 5:4; Matt. 14:9; Acts 23:14">⚓</a>swears an oath to bind himself by some agreement, he shall not break his word; he shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 22:27; Ps. 22:25; 50:14; 66:13, 14; Nah. 1:15">⚓</a>do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_3"> <sup>3</sup>“Or if a woman makes a vow to the Lord, and binds <i>herself</i> by some agreement while in her father’s house in her youth, </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_4"><sup>4</sup>and her father hears her vow and the agreement by which she has bound herself, and her father holds his peace, then all her vows shall stand, and every agreement with which she has bound herself shall stand. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_5"><sup>5</sup>But if her father overrules her on the day that he hears, then none of her vows nor her agreements by which she has bound herself shall stand; and the Lord will release her, because her father overruled her.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_6"> <sup>6</sup>“If indeed she takes a husband, while bound by her vows or by a rash utterance from her lips by which she bound herself, </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_7"><sup>7</sup>and her husband hears <i>it,</i> and makes no response to her on the day that he hears, then her vows shall stand, and her agreements by which she bound herself shall stand. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_8"><sup>8</sup>But if her husband <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Gen. 3:16)">⚓</a>overrules her on the day that he hears <i>it,</i> he shall make void her vow which she took and what she uttered with her lips, by which she bound herself, and the Lord will release her.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Also any vow of a widow or a divorced woman, by which she has bound herself, shall stand against her.<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_10"> <sup>10</sup>“If she vowed in her husband’s house, or bound herself by an agreement with an oath, </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_11"><sup>11</sup>and her husband heard <i>it,</i> and made no response to her <i>and</i> did not overrule her, then all her vows shall stand, and every agreement by which she bound herself shall stand. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_12"><sup>12</sup>But if her husband truly made them void on the day he heard <i>them,</i> then whatever proceeded from her lips concerning her vows or concerning the agreement binding her, it shall not stand; her husband has made them void, and the Lord will release her. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_13"><sup>13</sup>Every vow and every binding oath to afflict her soul, her husband may confirm it, or her husband may make it void. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_14"><sup>14</sup>Now if her husband makes no response whatever to her from day to day, then he confirms all her vows or all the agreements that bind her; he confirms them, because he made no response to her on the day that he heard <i>them.</i></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_15"><sup>15</sup>But if he does make them void after he has heard <i>them,</i> then he shall bear her guilt.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_16"> <sup>16</sup>These <i>are</i> the statutes which the Lord commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, and between a father and his daughter in her youth in her father’s house.<br/></span>
