---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Tragic End of Saul and His Sons</h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 31:1, 2">⚓</a>the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_2"><sup>2</sup>Then the Philistines followed hard after Saul and his sons. And the Philistines killed Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchishua, Saul’s sons. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_3"><sup>3</sup>The battle became fierce against Saul. The archers hit him, and he was wounded by the archers. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_4"><sup>4</sup>Then Saul said to his armorbearer, “Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised men come and abuse me.” But his armorbearer would not, for he was greatly afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword and fell on it. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_5"><sup>5</sup>And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_6"><sup>6</sup>So Saul and his three sons died, and all his house died together. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_7"><sup>7</sup>And when all the men of Israel who <i>were</i> in the valley saw that they had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities and fled; then the Philistines came and dwelt in them.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>So it happened the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_9"><sup>9</sup>And they stripped him and took his head and his armor, and sent word throughout the land of the Philistines to proclaim the news <i>in</i> <i>the</i> <i>temple</i> of their idols and among the people. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_10"><sup>10</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 31:10">⚓</a>Then they put his armor in the temple of their gods, and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_11"> <sup>11</sup>And when all Jabesh Gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_12"><sup>12</sup>all the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 14:52">⚓</a>valiant men arose and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons; and they brought them to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 21:12">⚓</a>Jabesh, and buried their bones under the tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_13"> <sup>13</sup>So Saul died for his unfaithfulness which he had committed against the Lord, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 13:13, 14; 15:22–26">⚓</a>because he did not keep the word of the Lord, and also because <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Lev. 19:31; 20:6); 1 Sam. 28:7">⚓</a>he consulted a medium for guidance. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_10_14"><sup>14</sup>But <i>he</i> did not inquire of the Lord; therefore He killed him, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 15:28; 2 Sam. 3:9, 10; 5:3; 1 Chr. 12:23">⚓</a>turned the kingdom over to David the son of Jesse.<br/></span>
