---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>The Queen of Sheba’s Praise of Solomon</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 10:1; Ps. 72:10; (Matt. 12:42; Luke 11:31)">⚓</a>when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to Jerusalem to test Solomon with hard questions, <i>having</i> a very great retinue, camels that bore spices, gold in abundance, and precious stones; and when she came to Solomon, she spoke with him about all that was in her heart. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_2"><sup>2</sup>So Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing so difficult for Solomon that he could not explain it to her. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_3"><sup>3</sup>And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_4"><sup>4</sup>the food on his table, the seating of his servants, the service of his waiters and their apparel, his <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 1:11">⚓</a>cupbearers and their apparel, and his entryway by which he went up to the house of the Lord, there was no more spirit in her.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then she said to the king: “<i>It</i> <i>was</i> a true report which I heard in my own land about your words and your wisdom. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_6"><sup>6</sup>However I did not believe their words until I came and saw with my own eyes; and indeed the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not told me. You exceed the fame of which I heard. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_7"><sup>7</sup>Happy <i>are</i> your men and happy <i>are</i> these your servants, who stand continually before you and hear your wisdom! </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_8"><sup>8</sup>Blessed be the Lord your God, who delighted in you, setting you on His throne <i>to</i> <i>be</i> king for the Lord your God! Because your God has <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 7:8; 2 Chr. 2:11; (Ps. 44:3)">⚓</a>loved Israel, to establish them forever, therefore He made you king over them, to do justice and righteousness.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_9"> <sup>9</sup>And she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold, spices in great abundance, and precious stones; there never were any spices such as those the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_10"> <sup>10</sup>Also, the servants of Hiram and the servants of Solomon, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 8:18">⚓</a>who brought gold from Ophir, brought algum wood and precious stones. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_11"><sup>11</sup>And the king made walkways <i>of</i> the algum wood for the house of the Lord and for the king’s house, also harps and stringed instruments for singers; and there were none such <i>as</i> <i>these</i> seen before in the land of Judah.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>Now King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all she desired, whatever she asked, <i>much</i> <i>more</i> than she had brought to the king. So she turned and went to her own country, she and her servants.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Great Wealth</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_9_13"> <sup>13</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 10:14–29">⚓</a>The weight of gold that came to Solomon yearly was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_14"><sup>14</sup>besides <i>what</i> the traveling merchants and traders brought. And all the kings of Arabia and governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_15"><sup>15</sup>And King Solomon made two hundred large shields of hammered gold; six hundred <i>shekels</i> of hammered gold went into each shield. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_16"><sup>16</sup><i>He</i> also <i>made</i> three hundred shields of hammered gold; three hundred <i>shekels</i> of gold went into each shield. The king put them in the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 7:2">⚓</a>House of the Forest of Lebanon.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_17"> <sup>17</sup>Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with pure gold. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_18"><sup>18</sup>The throne <i>had</i> six steps, with a footstool of gold, <i>which</i> <i>were</i> fastened to the throne; there were armrests on either side of the place of the seat, and two lions stood beside the armrests. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_19"><sup>19</sup>Twelve lions stood there, one on each side of the six steps; nothing like <i>this</i> had been made for any <i>other</i> kingdom.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_20"> <sup>20</sup>All King Solomon’s drinking vessels <i>were</i> gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon <i>were</i> pure gold. Not <i>one</i> <i>was</i> silver, for this was accounted as nothing in the days of Solomon. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_21"><sup>21</sup>For the king’s ships went to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 20:36, 37; Ps. 72:10">⚓</a>Tarshish with the servants of Hiram. Once every three years the merchant ships came, bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and monkeys.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_22"> <sup>22</sup>So King Solomon surpassed all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_23"><sup>23</sup>And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_24"><sup>24</sup>Each man brought his present: articles of silver and gold, garments, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 20:11">⚓</a>armor, spices, horses, and mules, at a set rate year by year.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_25"> <sup>25</sup>Solomon <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 17:16; 1 Kin. 4:26; 10:26; 2 Chr. 1:14; Is. 2:7">⚓</a>had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen whom he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_26"> <sup>26</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 4:21">⚓</a>So he reigned over all the kings <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 15:18; Ps. 72:8">⚓</a>from the River to the land of the Philistines, as far as the border of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_27"><sup>27</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 10:27">⚓</a>The king made silver <i>as</i> <i>common</i> in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedar trees <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 1:15–17">⚓</a>as abundant as the sycamores which <i>are</i> in the lowland. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_28"><sup>28</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 10:28; 2 Chr. 1:16">⚓</a>And they brought horses to Solomon from Egypt and from all lands.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Death of Solomon</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_9_29"> <sup>29</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 11:41">⚓</a>Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, <i>are</i> they not written in the book of Nathan the prophet, in the prophecy of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 11:29">⚓</a>Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 12:15; 13:22">⚓</a>Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat? </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_30"><sup>30</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 4:21; 11:42, 43; 1 Chr. 29:28">⚓</a>Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_9_31"><sup>31</sup>Then Solomon rested with his fathers, and was buried in the City of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.<br/></span>
