---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Revolt Against Rehoboam</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>And <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 12:1–20">⚓</a>Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had gone to Shechem to make him king. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_2"><sup>2</sup>So it happened, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard <i>it</i> (he was in Egypt, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 11:40">⚓</a>where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon), that Jeroboam returned from Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_3"><sup>3</sup>Then they sent for him and called him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_4"><sup>4</sup>“Your father made our yoke heavy; now therefore, lighten the burdensome service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>So he said to them, “Come back to me after three days.” And the people departed.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then King Rehoboam consulted the elders who stood before his father Solomon while he still lived, saying, “How do you advise <i>me</i> to answer these people?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>And they spoke to him, saying, “If you are kind to these people, and please them, and speak good words to them, they will be your servants forever.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_8"> <sup>8</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 12:8–11">⚓</a>But he rejected the advice which the elders had given him, and consulted the young men who had grown up with him, who stood before him. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_9"><sup>9</sup>And he said to them, “What advice do you give? How should we answer this people who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Lighten the yoke which your father put on us’?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then the young men who had grown up with him spoke to him, saying, “Thus you should speak to the people who have spoken to you, saying, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make <i>it</i> lighter on us’—thus you shall say to them: ‘My little <i>finger</i> shall be thicker than my father’s waist! </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_11"><sup>11</sup>And now, whereas my father put a heavy yoke on you, I will add to your yoke; my father chastised you with whips, but I <i>will</i> <i>chastise</i> <i>you</i> with scourges!’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>So <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 12:12–14">⚓</a>Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king had directed, saying, “Come back to me the third day.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_13"><sup>13</sup>Then the king answered them roughly. King Rehoboam rejected the advice of the elders, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_14"><sup>14</sup>and he spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father chastised you with whips, but I <i>will</i> <i>chastise</i> <i>you</i> with scourges!” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_15"><sup>15</sup>So the king did not listen to the people; <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 14:4; 1 Chr. 5:22; 2 Chr. 11:4; 22:7">⚓</a>for the turn <i>of</i> <i>events</i> was from God, that the Lord might fulfill His <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 11:29–39">⚓</a>word, which He had spoken by the hand of Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>Now when all Israel <i>saw</i> that the king did not listen to them, the people answered the king, saying:<br/>  “What share have we in David?<br/>   <i>We</i> <i>have</i> no inheritance in the son of Jesse.<br/>   Every man to your tents, O Israel!<br/>   Now see to your own house, O David!”<br/> So all Israel departed to their tents. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_17"><sup>17</sup>But Rehoboam reigned over the children of Israel who dwelt in the cities of Judah.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who <i>was</i> in charge of revenue; but the children of Israel stoned him with stones, and he died. Therefore King Rehoboam mounted <i>his</i> chariot in haste to flee to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_19"><sup>19</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 12:19">⚓</a>So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.<br/></span>
