---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>Josiah Reigns in Judah</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>Josiah <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 22:1, 2; Jer. 1:2; 3:6">⚓</a><i>was</i> eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_2"><sup>2</sup>And he did <i>what</i> <i>was</i> right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of his father David; <i>he</i> did <i>not</i> turn aside to the right hand or to the left.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_3"> <sup>3</sup>For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was still <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Eccl. 12:1">⚓</a>young, he began to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 15:2; (Prov. 8:17)">⚓</a>seek the God of his father David; and in the twelfth year he began <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 13:2">⚓</a>to purge Judah and Jerusalem <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 33:17–19, 22">⚓</a>of the high places, the wooden images, the carved images, and the molded images. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_4"><sup>4</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 26:30; 2 Kin. 23:4">⚓</a>They broke down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and the incense altars which <i>were</i> above them he cut down; and the wooden images, the carved images, and the molded images he broke in pieces, and made dust of them <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 23:6">⚓</a>and scattered <i>it</i> on the graves of those who had sacrificed to them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_5"><sup>5</sup>He also <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 13:2">⚓</a>burned the bones of the priests on their <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 23:20">⚓</a>altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_6"><sup>6</sup>And <i>so</i> <i>he</i> <i>did</i> in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, and Simeon, as far as Naphtali and all around, with axes. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_7"><sup>7</sup>When he had broken down the altars and the wooden images, had <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 9:21">⚓</a>beaten the carved images into powder, and cut down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hilkiah Finds the Book of the Law</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_34_8"> <sup>8</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 22:3–20">⚓</a>In the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the temple, he sent <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 25:22">⚓</a>Shaphan the son of Azaliah, Maaseiah the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 18:25">⚓</a>governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of the Lord his God. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_9"><sup>9</sup>When they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 12:4">⚓</a>the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites who kept the doors had gathered from the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, from all the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 30:6">⚓</a>remnant of Israel, from all Judah and Benjamin, and <i>which</i> they had brought back to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_10"><sup>10</sup>Then they put <i>it</i> in the hand of the foremen who had the oversight of the house of the Lord; and they gave it to the workmen who worked in the house of the Lord, to repair and restore the house. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_11"><sup>11</sup>They gave <i>it</i> to the craftsmen and builders to buy hewn stone and timber for beams, and to floor the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_12"><sup>12</sup>And the men did the work faithfully. Their overseers <i>were</i> Jahath and Obadiah the Levites, of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to supervise. <i>Others</i> <i>of</i> the Levites, all of whom were skillful with instruments of music, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_13"><sup>13</sup><i>were</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 8:10">⚓</a>over the burden bearers and <i>were</i> overseers of all who did work in any kind of service. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Chr. 23:4, 5">⚓</a>And <i>some</i> of the Levites <i>were</i> scribes, officers, and gatekeepers.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_14"> <sup>14</sup>Now when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 22:8">⚓</a>found the Book of the Law of the Lord<i>given</i> by Moses. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_15"><sup>15</sup>Then Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the Book of the Law in the house of the Lord.” And Hilkiah gave the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 31:24, 26">⚓</a>book to Shaphan. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_16"><sup>16</sup>So Shaphan carried the book to the king, bringing the king word, saying, “All that was committed to your servants they are doing. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_17"><sup>17</sup>And they have gathered the money that was found in the house of the Lord, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and the workmen.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_18"><sup>18</sup>Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read it before the king.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_19"> <sup>19</sup>Thus it happened, when the king heard the words of the Law, that he tore his clothes. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_20"><sup>20</sup>Then the king commanded Hilkiah, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 26:24">⚓</a>Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a servant of the king, saying, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_21"><sup>21</sup>“Go, inquire of the Lord for me, and for those who are left in Israel and Judah, concerning the words of the book that is found; for great <i>is</i> the wrath of the Lord that is poured out on us, because our fathers have not <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 17:15–19">⚓</a>kept the word of the Lord, to do according to all that is written in this book.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_22"> <sup>22</sup>So Hilkiah and those the king <i>had</i> <i>appointed</i> went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe. (She dwelt in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter.) And they spoke to her to that <i>effect.</i><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then she answered them, “Thus says the Lord God of Israel, ‘Tell the man who sent you to Me, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_24"><sup>24</sup>“Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I will <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 36:14–20">⚓</a>bring calamity on this place and on its inhabitants, all the curses that are written in the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 28:15–68">⚓</a>book which they have read before the king of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_25"><sup>25</sup>because they have forsaken Me and burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands. Therefore My wrath will be poured out on this place, and not be quenched.’ ” ’ </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_26"><sup>26</sup>But as for the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, in this manner you shall speak to him, ‘Thus says the Lord God of Israel: “<i>Concerning</i> the words which you have heard— </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_27"><sup>27</sup>because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before God when you heard His words against this place and against its inhabitants, and you humbled yourself before Me, and you tore your clothes and wept before Me, I also have heard <i>you,</i>” says the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 22:19; 2 Chr. 12:7; 30:6; 33:12, 13">⚓</a>Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_28"><sup>28</sup>“Surely I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace; and your eyes shall not see all the calamity which I will bring on this place and its inhabitants.” ’ ” So they brought back word to the king.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Josiah Restores True Worship</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_34_29"> <sup>29</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 23:1–3">⚓</a>Then the king sent and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_30"><sup>30</sup>The king went up to the house of the Lord, with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem—the priests and the Levites, and all the people, great and small. And he <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 8:1–3">⚓</a>read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant which had been found in the house of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_31"><sup>31</sup>Then the king <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 6:13">⚓</a>stood in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 11:14; 23:3; 2 Chr. 30:16">⚓</a>his place and made a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 23:16; 29:10">⚓</a>covenant before the Lord, to follow the Lord, and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_32"><sup>32</sup>And he made all who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin take a stand. So the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_34_33"><sup>33</sup>Thus Josiah removed all the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 11:5; 2 Chr. 33:2">⚓</a>abominations from all the country that <i>belonged</i> to the children of Israel, and made all who were present in Israel diligently serve the Lord their God. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 3:10">⚓</a>All his days they did not depart from following the Lord God of their fathers.<br/></span>
