---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Absalom’s Defeat and Death</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>And David numbered the people who <i>were</i> with him, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 16:2, 14">⚓</a>set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_2"><sup>2</sup>Then David sent out one third of the people under the hand of Joab, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 18:25; Num. 31:14; 1 Sam. 22:7">⚓</a>one third under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, and one third under the hand of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 7:16; 1 Sam. 11:11">⚓</a>Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the people, “I also will surely go out with you myself.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_3"> <sup>3</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 15:19–22">⚓</a>But the people answered, “You shall not go out! For if we flee away, they will not care about us; nor if half of us die, will they care about us. But <i>you</i> <i>are</i> worth ten thousand of us now. For you are now more help to us in the city.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the king said to them, “Whatever seems best to you I will do.” So the king stood beside the gate, and all the people went out by hundreds and by thousands. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_5"><sup>5</sup>Now the king had commanded Joab, Abishai, and Ittai, saying, “<i>Deal</i> gently for my sake with the young man Absalom.” <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 21:17">⚓</a>And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains orders concerning Absalom.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_6"> <sup>6</sup>So the people went out into the field of battle against Israel. And the battle was in the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 18:12">⚓</a>woods of Ephraim. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_7"><sup>7</sup>The people of Israel were overthrown there before the servants of David, and a great slaughter of twenty thousand took place there that day. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_8"><sup>8</sup>For the battle there was scattered over the face of the whole countryside, and the woods devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Absalom met the servants of David. Absalom rode on a mule. The mule went under the thick boughs of a great terebinth tree, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 17:15, 18; 2 Sam. 17:26">⚓</a>his head caught in the terebinth; so he was left hanging between heaven and earth. And the mule which <i>was</i> under him went on. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_10"><sup>10</sup>Now a certain man saw <i>it</i> and told Joab, and said, “I just saw Absalom hanging in a terebinth tree!”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>So Joab said to the man who told him, “You just saw <i>him!</i> And why did you not strike him there to the ground? I would have given you ten <i>shekels</i> of silver and a belt.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_12"> <sup>12</sup>But the man said to Joab, “Though I were to receive a thousand <i>shekels</i> of silver in my hand, I would not raise my hand against the king’s son. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 14:26">⚓</a>For in our hearing the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai, saying, ‘Beware lest anyone <i>touch</i> the young man Absalom!’ </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_13"><sup>13</sup>Otherwise I would have dealt falsely against my own life. For there is nothing hidden from the king, and you yourself would have set yourself against <i>me.</i>”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then Joab said, “I cannot linger with you.” And he took three spears in his hand and thrust them through Absalom’s heart, while he was <i>still</i> alive in the midst of the terebinth tree. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_15"><sup>15</sup>And ten young men who bore Joab’s armor surrounded Absalom, and struck and killed him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_16"> <sup>16</sup>So Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing Israel. For Joab held back the people. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_17"><sup>17</sup>And they took Absalom and cast him into a large pit in the woods, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 18:5">⚓</a>laid a very large heap of stones over him. Then all Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 21:20, 21; Josh. 7:26; 8:29">⚓</a>fled, everyone to his tent.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up a pillar for himself, which <i>is</i> in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 19:8; 20:1, 22">⚓</a>the King’s Valley. For he said, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 14:17">⚓</a>“I have no son to keep my name in remembrance.” He called the pillar after his own name. And to this day it is called Absalom’s Monument.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David Hears of Absalom’s Death</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 14:27">⚓</a>Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, “Let me run now and take the news to the king, how the Lord has avenged him of his enemies.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_20"> <sup>20</sup>And Joab said to him, “You shall not take the news this day, for you shall take the news another day. But today you shall take no news, because the king’s son is dead.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_21"><sup>21</sup>Then Joab said to the Cushite, “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” So the Cushite bowed himself to Joab and ran.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_22"> <sup>22</sup>And Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said again to Joab, “But whatever happens, please let me also run after the Cushite.”<br/> So Joab said, “Why will you run, my son, since you have no news ready?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_23"> <sup>23</sup>“But whatever happens,” <i>he</i> <i>said,</i> “let me run.”<br/> So he said to him, “Run.” Then Ahimaaz ran by way of the plain, and outran the Cushite.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_24"> <sup>24</sup>Now David was sitting between the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 15:36; 17:17">⚓</a>two gates. And the watchman went up to the roof over the gate, to the wall, lifted his eyes and looked, and there was a man, running alone. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_25"><sup>25</sup>Then the watchman cried out and told the king. And the king said, “If he <i>is</i> alone, <i>there</i> <i>is</i> news in his mouth.” And he came rapidly and drew near.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then the watchman saw <i>another</i> man running, and the watchman called to the gatekeeper and said, “There is <i>another</i> man, running alone!”<br/> And the king said, “He also brings news.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_27"> <sup>27</sup>So the watchman said, “I think the running of the first is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok.”<br/> And the king said, “He <i>is</i> a good man, and comes with <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 5:11; 2 Sam. 13:34; 2 Kin. 9:17">⚓</a>good news.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_28"> <sup>28</sup>So Ahimaaz called out and said to the king, “All is well!” Then he bowed down with his face to the earth before the king, and said, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 1:42">⚓</a>“Blessed <i>be</i> the Lord your God, who has delivered up the men who raised their hand against my lord the king!”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_29"> <sup>29</sup>The king said, “Is the young man Absalom safe?”<br/> Ahimaaz answered, “When Joab sent the king’s servant and <i>me</i> your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I did not know what <i>it</i> <i>was</i> <i>about.</i>”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_30"> <sup>30</sup>And the king said, “Turn aside <i>and</i> stand here.” So he turned aside and stood still.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_31"> <sup>31</sup>Just then the Cushite came, and the Cushite said, “There is good news, my lord the king! For the Lord has avenged you this day of all those who rose against you.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_32"> <sup>32</sup>And the king said to the Cushite, “Is the young man Absalom safe?”<br/> So the Cushite answered, “May the enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise against you to do harm, be like <i>that</i> young man!”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Mourning for Absalom</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_33"> <sup>33</sup>Then the king was deeply moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept. And as he went, he said thus: <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 16:12">⚓</a>“O my son Absalom—my son, my son Absalom—if only I had died in your place! O Absalom my son, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 12:10">⚓</a>my son!”<br/></span>
