---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>The King Dethrones Queen Vashti</h3></div>
<span class="verse et_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now it came to pass in the days of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 4:6; Dan. 9:1">⚓</a>Ahasuerus (this <i>was</i> the Ahasuerus who reigned <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 8:9">⚓</a>over one hundred and twenty-seven provinces, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 6:1">⚓</a>from India to Ethiopia), </span>
<span class="verse et_1_2"><sup>2</sup>in those days when King Ahasuerus <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 1:46">⚓</a>sat on the throne of his kingdom, which <i>was</i> in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 1:1; Dan. 8:2">⚓</a>Shushan the citadel, </span>
<span class="verse et_1_3"><sup>3</sup><i>that</i> in the third year of his reign he <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 40:20; Esth. 2:18">⚓</a>made a feast for all his officials and servants—the powers of Persia and Media, the nobles, and the princes of the provinces <i>being</i> before him— </span>
<span class="verse et_1_4"><sup>4</sup>when he showed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the splendor of his excellent majesty for many days, one hundred and eighty days <i>in</i> <i>all.</i><br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>And when these days were completed, the king made a feast lasting seven days for all the people who were present in Shushan the citadel, from great to small, in the court of the garden of the king’s palace. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_6"><sup>6</sup><i>There</i> <i>were</i> white and blue linen <i>curtains</i> fastened with cords of fine linen and purple on silver rods and marble pillars; <i>and</i> <i>the</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 7:8; Ezek. 23:41; Amos 2:8; 6:4">⚓</a>couches <i>were</i> of gold and silver on a <i>mosaic</i> pavement of alabaster, turquoise, and white and black marble. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_7"><sup>7</sup>And they served drinks in golden vessels, each vessel being different from the other, with royal wine in abundance, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:18">⚓</a>according to the generosity of the king. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_8"><sup>8</sup>In accordance with the law, the drinking was not compulsory; for so the king had ordered all the officers of his household, that they should do according to each man’s pleasure.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>Queen Vashti also made a feast for the women <i>in</i> the royal palace which <i>belonged</i> to King Ahasuerus.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 7:9">⚓</a>Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, seven eunuchs who served in the presence of King Ahasuerus, </span>
<span class="verse et_1_11"><sup>11</sup>to bring Queen Vashti before the king, <i>wearing</i> her royal crown, in order to show her beauty to the people and the officials, for she <i>was</i> beautiful to behold. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_12"><sup>12</sup>But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king’s command <i>brought</i> by <i>his</i> eunuchs; therefore the king was furious, and his anger burned within him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then the king said to the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 10:7; Dan. 2:12; Matt. 2:1">⚓</a>wise men <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Chr. 12:32">⚓</a>who understood the times (for this <i>was</i> the king’s manner toward all who knew law and justice, </span>
<span class="verse et_1_14"><sup>14</sup>those closest to him <i>being</i> Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 7:14">⚓</a>seven princes of Persia and Media, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 25:19; (Matt. 18:10)">⚓</a>who had access to the king’s presence, <i>and</i> who ranked highest in the kingdom): </span>
<span class="verse et_1_15"><sup>15</sup>“What <i>shall</i> <i>we</i> do to Queen Vashti, according to law, because she did not obey the command of King Ahasuerus <i>brought</i> <i>to</i> <i>her</i> by the eunuchs?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>And Memucan answered before the king and the princes: “Queen Vashti has not only wronged the king, but also all the princes, and all the people who <i>are</i> in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_17"><sup>17</sup>For the queen’s behavior will become known to all women, so that they will <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Eph. 5:33)">⚓</a>despise their husbands in their eyes, when they report, ‘King Ahasuerus commanded Queen Vashti to be brought in before him, but she did not come.’ </span>
<span class="verse et_1_18"><sup>18</sup>This very day the <i>noble</i> ladies of Persia and Media will say to all the king’s officials that they have heard of the behavior of the queen. Thus <i>there</i> <i>will</i> <i>be</i> excessive contempt and wrath. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_19"><sup>19</sup>If it pleases the king, let a royal decree go out from him, and let it be recorded in the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it will <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 8:8; Dan. 6:8">⚓</a>not be altered, that Vashti shall come no more before King Ahasuerus; and let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_20"><sup>20</sup>When the king’s decree which he will make is proclaimed throughout all his empire (for it is great), all wives will <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Eph. 5:33; Col. 3:18; 1 Pet. 3:1)">⚓</a>honor their husbands, both great and small.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>And the reply pleased the king and the princes, and the king did according to the word of Memucan. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_22"><sup>22</sup>Then he sent letters to all the king’s provinces, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 3:12, 8:9">⚓</a>to each province in its own script, and to every people in their own language, that each man should <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Eph. 5:22–24; 1 Tim. 2:12)">⚓</a>be master in his own house, and speak in the language of his own people.<br/></span>
