---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Esther Becomes Queen</h3></div>
<span class="verse et_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>After these things, when the wrath of King Ahasuerus subsided, he remembered Vashti, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 1:19, 20">⚓</a>what she had done, and what had been decreed against her. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Then the king’s servants who attended him said: “Let beautiful young virgins be sought for the king; </span>
<span class="verse et_2_3"><sup>3</sup>and let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather all the beautiful young virgins to Shushan the citadel, into the women’s quarters, under the custody of Hegai the king’s eunuch, custodian of the women. And let beauty preparations be given <i>them.</i></span>
<span class="verse et_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Then let the young woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti.”<br/> This thing pleased the king, and he did so.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>In Shushan the citadel there was a certain Jew whose name <i>was</i> Mordecai the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 9:1">⚓</a>Kish, a Benjamite. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_6"><sup>6</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 24:14, 15; 2 Chr. 36:10, 20; Jer. 24:1">⚓</a><i>Kish</i> had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives who had been captured with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_7"><sup>7</sup>And <i>Mordecai</i> had brought up Hadassah, that <i>is,</i> Esther, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:15">⚓</a>his uncle’s daughter, for she had neither father nor mother. The young woman <i>was</i> lovely and beautiful. When her father and mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>So it was, when the king’s command and decree were heard, and when many young women were <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:3">⚓</a>gathered at Shushan the citadel, <i>under</i> the custody of Hegai, that Esther also was taken to the king’s palace, into the care of Hegai the custodian of the women. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_9"><sup>9</sup>Now the young woman pleased him, and she obtained his favor; so he readily gave <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:3, 12">⚓</a>beauty preparations to her, besides her allowance. Then seven choice maidservants were provided for her from the king’s palace, and he moved her and her maidservants to the best <i>place</i> in the house of the women.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_2_10"> <sup>10</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:20">⚓</a>Esther had not revealed her people or family, for Mordecai had charged her not to reveal <i>it.</i></span>
<span class="verse et_2_11"><sup>11</sup>And every day Mordecai paced in front of the court of the women’s quarters, to learn of Esther’s welfare and what was happening to her.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>Each young woman’s turn came to go in to King Ahasuerus after she had completed twelve months’ preparation, according to the regulations for the women, for thus were the days of their preparation apportioned: six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with perfumes and preparations for beautifying women. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_13"><sup>13</sup>Thus <i>prepared, each</i> young woman went to the king, and she was given whatever she desired to take with her from the women’s quarters to the king’s palace. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_14"><sup>14</sup>In the evening she went, and in the morning she returned to the second house of the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king’s eunuch who kept the concubines. She would not go in to the king again unless the king delighted in her and called for her by name.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>Now when the turn came for Esther <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:7, 9:29">⚓</a>the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her as his daughter, to go in to the king, she requested nothing but what Hegai the king’s eunuch, the custodian of the women, advised. And Esther <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 5:2, 8">⚓</a>obtained favor in the sight of all who saw her. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_16"><sup>16</sup>So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus, into his royal palace, in the tenth month, which <i>is</i> the month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_17"><sup>17</sup>The king loved Esther more than all the <i>other</i> women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins; so he set the royal <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 1:11">⚓</a>crown upon her head and made her queen instead of Vashti. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_18"><sup>18</sup>Then the king <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 1:3">⚓</a>made a great feast, the Feast of Esther, for all his officials and servants; and he proclaimed a holiday in the provinces and gave gifts according to the generosity of a king.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Mordecai Discovers a Plot</h3></div>
<span class="verse et_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>When virgins were gathered together a second time, Mordecai sat within the king’s gate. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_20"><sup>20</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:10; (Prov. 22:6)">⚓</a><i>Now</i> Esther had not revealed her family and her people, just as Mordecai had charged her, for Esther obeyed the command of Mordecai as when she was brought up by him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_2_21"> <sup>21</sup>In those days, while Mordecai sat within the king’s gate, two of the king’s eunuchs, Bigthan and Teresh, doorkeepers, became furious and sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_22"><sup>22</sup>So the matter became known to Mordecai, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 6:1, 2">⚓</a>who told Queen Esther, and Esther informed the king in Mordecai’s name. </span>
<span class="verse et_2_23"><sup>23</sup>And when an inquiry was made into the matter, it was confirmed, and both were hanged on a gallows; and it was written in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 6:1">⚓</a>the book of the chronicles in the presence of the king.<br/></span>
