---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Esther Agrees to Help the Jews</h3></div>
<span class="verse et_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Mordecai learned all that had happened, he <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 1:11; Esth. 3:8–10; Jon. 3:5, 6">⚓</a>tore his clothes and put on sackcloth <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 7:6; Ezek. 27:30">⚓</a>and ashes, and went out into the midst of the city. He <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 27:34">⚓</a>cried out with a loud and bitter cry. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_2"><sup>2</sup>He went as far as the front of the king’s gate, for no one <i>might</i> enter the king’s gate clothed with sackcloth. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_3"><sup>3</sup>And in every province where the king’s command and decree arrived, <i>there</i> <i>was</i> great mourning among the Jews, with fasting, weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Esther’s maids and eunuchs came and told her, and the queen was deeply distressed. Then she sent garments to clothe Mordecai and take his sackcloth away from him, but he would not accept <i>them.</i></span>
<span class="verse et_4_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Esther called Hathach, <i>one</i> of the king’s eunuchs whom he had appointed to attend her, and she gave him a command concerning Mordecai, to learn what and why this <i>was.</i></span>
<span class="verse et_4_6"><sup>6</sup>So Hathach went out to Mordecai in the city square that <i>was</i> in front of the king’s gate. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_7"><sup>7</sup>And Mordecai told him all that had happened to him, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 3:9">⚓</a>the sum of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king’s treasuries to destroy the Jews. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_8"><sup>8</sup>He also gave him <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 3:14, 15">⚓</a>a copy of the written decree for their destruction, which was given at Shushan, that he might show it to Esther and explain it to her, and that he might command her to go in to the king to make supplication to him and plead before him for her people. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_9"><sup>9</sup>So Hathach returned and told Esther the words of Mordecai.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Esther spoke to Hathach, and gave him a command for Mordecai: </span>
<span class="verse et_4_11"><sup>11</sup>“All the king’s servants and the people of the king’s provinces know that any man or woman who goes into <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 5:1, 6:4">⚓</a>the inner court to the king, who has not been called, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 2:9">⚓</a><i>he</i> <i>has</i> but one law: put <i>all</i> to death, except the one <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 5:2, 8:4">⚓</a>to whom the king holds out the golden scepter, that he may live. Yet I myself have not been <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 2:14">⚓</a>called to go in to the king these thirty days.” </span>
<span class="verse et_4_12"><sup>12</sup>So they told Mordecai Esther’s words.<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>And Mordecai told <i>them</i> to answer Esther: “Do not think in your heart that you will escape in the king’s palace any more than all the other Jews. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_14"><sup>14</sup>For if you remain completely silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place, but you and your father’s house will perish. Yet who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for <i>such</i> a time as this?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Esther told <i>them</i> to reply to Mordecai: </span>
<span class="verse et_4_16"><sup>16</sup>“Go, gather all the Jews who are present in Shushan, and fast for me; neither eat nor drink for <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Esth. 5:1">⚓</a>three days, night or day. My maids and I will fast likewise. And so I will go to the king, which <i>is</i> against the law; <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 43:14">⚓</a>and if I perish, I perish!”<br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>So Mordecai went his way and did according to all that Esther commanded him.<br/></span>
