---
translation: NKJV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
---

<div class="title"><h1>46</h1><h3>The Manner of Worship</h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_46_1"> <sup>1</sup>‘Thus says the Lord God: “The gateway of the inner court that faces toward the east shall be shut the six <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 20:9">⚓</a>working days; but on the Sabbath it shall be opened, and on the day of the New Moon it shall be opened. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_2"><sup>2</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 44:3">⚓</a>The prince shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gateway from the outside, and stand by the gatepost. The priests shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings. He shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_3"><sup>3</sup>Likewise the people of the land shall worship at the entrance to this gateway before the Lord on the Sabbaths and the New Moons. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_4"><sup>4</sup>The burnt offering that <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 45:17">⚓</a>the prince offers to the Lord on the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 28:9, 10">⚓</a>Sabbath day <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> six lambs without blemish, and a ram without blemish; </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_5"><sup>5</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 28:12; Ezek. 45:24; 46:7, 11">⚓</a>and the grain offering <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> <i>one</i> ephah for a ram, and the grain offering for the lambs, as much as he wants to give, as well as a hin of oil with every ephah. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_6"><sup>6</sup>On the day of the New Moon <i>it</i> <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> a young bull without blemish, six lambs, and a ram; they shall be without blemish. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_7"><sup>7</sup>He shall prepare a grain offering of an ephah for a bull, an ephah for a ram, as much as he wants to give for the lambs, and a hin of oil with every ephah. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_8"><sup>8</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 44:3; 46:2">⚓</a>When the prince enters, he shall go in by way of the vestibule of the gateway, and go out the same way.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_46_9"> <sup>9</sup>“But when the people of the land <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 23:14–17; 34:23; Deut. 16:16, 17; Ps. 84:7; Mic. 6:6">⚓</a>come before the Lord on the appointed feast days, whoever enters by way of the north <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 48:31, 33">⚓</a>gate to worship shall go out by way of the south gate; and whoever enters by way of the south gate shall go out by way of the north gate. He shall not return by way of the gate through which he came, but shall go out through the opposite gate. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_10"><sup>10</sup>The prince shall then be in their midst. When they go in, he shall go in; and when they go out, he shall go out. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_11"><sup>11</sup>At the festivals and the appointed feast days <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 46:5, 7">⚓</a>the grain offering shall be an ephah for a bull, an ephah for a ram, as much as he wants to give for the lambs, and a hin of oil with every ephah.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_46_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Now when the prince makes a voluntary burnt offering or voluntary peace offering to the Lord, the gate that faces toward the east <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 44:3; 46:1, 2, 8">⚓</a>shall then be opened for him; and he shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings as he did on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he goes out the gate shall be shut.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_46_13"> <sup>13</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 29:38; Num. 28:3–5">⚓</a>“You shall daily make a burnt offering to the Lord<i>of</i> a lamb of the first year without blemish; you shall prepare it every morning. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_14"><sup>14</sup>And you shall prepare a grain offering with it every morning, a sixth of an ephah, and a third of a hin of oil to moisten the fine flour. This grain offering is a perpetual ordinance, to be made regularly to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_15"><sup>15</sup>Thus they shall prepare the lamb, the grain offering, and the oil, <i>as</i> a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 29:42; Num. 28:6">⚓</a>regular burnt offering every morning.”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Prince and Inheritance Laws</h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_46_16"> <sup>16</sup>‘Thus says the Lord God: “If the prince gives a gift <i>of</i> <i>some</i> of his inheritance to any of his sons, it shall belong to his sons; it is their possession by inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_17"><sup>17</sup>But if he gives a gift of some of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his until <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 25:10">⚓</a>the year of liberty, after which it shall return to the prince. But his inheritance shall belong to his sons; it shall become theirs. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_18"><sup>18</sup>Moreover <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 45:8">⚓</a>the prince shall not take any of the people’s inheritance by evicting them from their property; he shall provide an inheritance for his sons from his own property, so that none of My people may be scattered from his property.” ’ ”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>How the Offerings Were Prepared</h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_46_19"> <sup>19</sup>Now he brought me through the entrance, which <i>was</i> at the side of the gate, into the holy <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 42:13">⚓</a>chambers of the priests which face toward the north; and there a place <i>was</i> situated at their extreme western end. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_20"><sup>20</sup>And he said to me, “This <i>is</i> the place where the priests shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 35:13">⚓</a>boil the trespass offering and the sin offering, <i>and</i> where they shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 2:4, 5, 7">⚓</a>bake the grain offering, so that they do not bring <i>them</i> out into the outer court <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 44:19">⚓</a>to sanctify the people.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_46_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then he brought me out into the outer court and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court; and in fact, in every corner of the court <i>there</i> <i>was</i> <i>another</i> court. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_22"><sup>22</sup>In the four corners of the court <i>were</i> enclosed courts, forty <i>cubits</i> long and thirty wide; all four corners <i>were</i> the same size. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_23"><sup>23</sup><i>There</i> <i>was</i> a row <i>of</i> <i>building</i> <i>stones</i> all around in them, all around the four of them; and cooking hearths were made under the rows of stones all around. </span>
<span class="verse exe_46_24"><sup>24</sup>And he said to me, “These <i>are</i> the kitchens where the ministers of the temple shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 46:20">⚓</a>boil the sacrifices of the people.”<br/></span>
