---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Ahab Defeats the Syrians</h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 15:18, 20; 2 Kin. 6:24">⚓</a>Ben-Hadad the king of Syria gathered all his forces together; thirty-two kings <i>were</i> with him, with horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 16:24; 2 Kin. 6:24">⚓</a>Samaria, and made war against it. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_2"><sup>2</sup>Then he sent messengers into the city to Ahab king of Israel, and said to him, “Thus says Ben-Hadad: </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_3"><sup>3</sup>‘Your silver and your gold <i>are</i> mine; your loveliest wives and children are mine.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>And the king of Israel answered and said, “My lord, O king, just as you say, I and all that I have <i>are</i> yours.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the messengers came back and said, “Thus speaks Ben-Hadad, saying, ‘Indeed I have sent to you, saying, “You shall deliver to me your silver and your gold, your wives and your children”; </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_6"><sup>6</sup>but I will send my servants to you tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house and the houses of your servants. And it shall be, <i>that</i> whatever is pleasant in your eyes, they will put <i>it</i> in their hands and take <i>it.</i>’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_7"> <sup>7</sup>So the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, “Notice, please, and see how this <i>man</i> seeks trouble, for he sent to me for my wives, my children, my silver, and my gold; and I did not deny him.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_8"> <sup>8</sup>And all the elders and all the people said to him, “Do not listen or consent.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_9"> <sup>9</sup>Therefore he said to the messengers of Ben-Hadad, “Tell my lord the king, ‘All that you sent for to your servant the first time I will do, but this thing I cannot do.’ ”<br/> And the messengers departed and brought back word to him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Ben-Hadad sent to him and said, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 19:2; 2 Kin. 6:31">⚓</a>“The gods do so to me, and more also, if enough dust is left of Samaria for a handful for each of the people who follow me.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_11"> <sup>11</sup>So the king of Israel answered and said, “Tell <i>him,</i> ‘Let not the one who puts on <i>his</i> <i>armor</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 27:1; (Eccl. 7:8)">⚓</a>boast like the one who takes <i>it</i> <i>off.</i>’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_12"> <sup>12</sup>And it happened when <i>Ben-Hadad</i> heard this message, as he and the kings <i>were</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 20:16">⚓</a>drinking at the command post, that he said to his servants, “Get ready.” And they got ready to attack the city.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_13"> <sup>13</sup>Suddenly a prophet approached Ahab king of Israel, saying, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 20:28">⚓</a>I will deliver it into your hand today, and you shall know that I <i>am</i> the Lord.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_14"> <sup>14</sup>So Ahab said, “By whom?”<br/> And he said, “Thus says the Lord: ‘By the young leaders of the provinces.’ ”<br/> Then he said, “Who will set the battle in order?”<br/> And he answered, “You.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then he mustered the young leaders of the provinces, and there were two hundred and thirty-two; and after them he mustered all the people, all the children of Israel—seven thousand.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_16"> <sup>16</sup>So they went out at noon. Meanwhile Ben-Hadad and the thirty-two kings helping him were <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 16:9; 20:12; (Prov. 20:1)">⚓</a>getting drunk at the command post. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_17"><sup>17</sup>The young leaders of the provinces went out first. And Ben-Hadad sent out <i>a</i> <i>patrol,</i> and they told him, saying, “Men are coming out of Samaria!” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_18"><sup>18</sup>So he said, “If they have come out for peace, take them alive; and if they have come out for war, take them alive.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then these young leaders of the provinces went out of the city with the army which followed them. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_20"><sup>20</sup>And each one killed his man; so the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them; and Ben-Hadad the king of Syria escaped on a horse with the cavalry. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_21"><sup>21</sup>Then the king of Israel went out and attacked the horses and chariots, and killed the Syrians with a great slaughter.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_22"> <sup>22</sup>And the prophet came to the king of Israel and said to him, “Go, strengthen yourself; take note, and see what you should do, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 11:1; 1 Kin. 20:26">⚓</a>for in the spring of the year the king of Syria will come up against you.”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Syrians Again Defeated</h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then the servants of the king of Syria said to him, “Their gods <i>are</i> gods of the hills. Therefore they were stronger than we; but if we fight against them in the plain, surely we will be stronger than they. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_24"><sup>24</sup>So do this thing: Dismiss the kings, each from his position, and put captains in their places; </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_25"><sup>25</sup>and you shall muster an army like the army that you have lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot. Then we will fight against them in the plain; surely we will be stronger than they.”<br/> And he listened to their voice and did so.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_26"> <sup>26</sup>So it was, in the spring of the year, that Ben-Hadad mustered the Syrians and went up to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 13:4; 2 Kin. 13:17">⚓</a>Aphek to fight against Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_27"><sup>27</sup>And the children of Israel were mustered and given provisions, and they went against them. Now the children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of goats, while the Syrians filled the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 6:3–5; 1 Sam. 13:5–8">⚓</a>countryside.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 17:18">⚓</a>man of God came and spoke to the king of Israel, and said, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Because the Syrians have said, “The Lord<i>is</i> God of the hills, but He <i>is</i> not God of the valleys,” therefore <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 20:13">⚓</a>I will deliver all this great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I <i>am</i> the Lord.’ ” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_29"><sup>29</sup>And they encamped opposite each other for seven days. So it was that on the seventh day the battle was joined; and the children of Israel killed one hundred thousand foot soldiers <i>of</i> the Syrians in one day. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_30"><sup>30</sup>But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; then a wall fell on twenty-seven thousand of the men <i>who</i> <i>were</i> left.<br/> And Ben-Hadad fled and went into the city, into an inner chamber.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ahab’s Treaty with Ben-Hadad</h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then his servants said to him, “Look now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel <i>are</i> merciful kings. Please, let us <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 37:34; 2 Sam. 3:31">⚓</a>put sackcloth around our waists and ropes around our heads, and go out to the king of Israel; perhaps he will spare your life.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_32"><sup>32</sup>So they wore sackcloth around their waists and <i>put</i> ropes around their heads, and came to the king of Israel and said, “Your servant Ben-Hadad says, ‘Please let me live.’ ”<br/> And he said, “<i>Is</i> he still alive? He <i>is</i> my brother.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_33"> <sup>33</sup>Now the men were watching closely to see whether <i>any</i> <i>sign</i> <i>of</i> <i>mercy</i> <i>would</i> <i>come</i> from him; and they quickly grasped <i>at</i> <i>this</i> <i>word</i> and said, “Your brother Ben-Hadad.”<br/> So he said, “Go, bring him.” Then Ben-Hadad came out to him; and he had him come up into the chariot.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_34"> <sup>34</sup>So <i>Ben-Hadad</i> said to him, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 15:20">⚓</a>“The cities which my father took from your father I will restore; and you may set up marketplaces for yourself in Damascus, as my father did in Samaria.”<br/> Then <i>Ahab</i> <i>said,</i> “I will send you away with this treaty.” So he made a treaty with him and sent him away.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ahab Condemned</h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_35"> <sup>35</sup>Now a certain man of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 2:3, 5, 7, 15">⚓</a>the sons of the prophets said to his neighbor <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 13:17, 18">⚓</a>by the word of the Lord, “Strike me, please.” And the man refused to strike him. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_36"><sup>36</sup>Then he said to him, “Because you have not obeyed the voice of the Lord, surely, as soon as you depart from me, a lion shall kill you.” And as soon as he left him, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 13:24">⚓</a>a lion found him and killed him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_37"> <sup>37</sup>And he found another man, and said, “Strike me, please.” So the man struck him, inflicting a wound. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_38"><sup>38</sup>Then the prophet departed and waited for the king by the road, and disguised himself with a bandage over his eyes. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_39"><sup>39</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 12:1">⚓</a>as the king passed by, he cried out to the king and said, “Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and there, a man came over and brought a man to me, and said, ‘Guard this man; if by any means he is missing, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 10:24">⚓</a>your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_40"><sup>40</sup>While your servant was busy here and there, he was gone.”<br/> Then the king of Israel said to him, “So <i>shall</i> your judgment <i>be;</i> you yourself have decided <i>it.</i>”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_41"> <sup>41</sup>And he hastened to take the bandage away from his eyes; and the king of Israel recognized him as one of the prophets. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_42"><sup>42</sup>Then he said to him, “Thus says the Lord: <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 22:31–37">⚓</a>‘Because you have let slip out of <i>your</i> hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction, therefore your life shall go for his life, and your people for his people.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_20_43"> <sup>43</sup>So the king of Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 21:4">⚓</a>went to his house sullen and displeased, and came to Samaria.<br/></span>
