---
translation: NKJV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Image of Gold</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height <i>was</i> sixty cubits <i>and</i> its width six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_2"><sup>2</sup>And King Nebuchadnezzar sent <i>word</i> to gather together the satraps, the administrators, the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the image which King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_3"><sup>3</sup>So the satraps, the administrators, the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered together for the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Then a herald cried aloud: “To you it is commanded, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 4:1; 6:25">⚓</a>O peoples, nations, and languages, </span>
<span class="verse da_3_5"><sup>5</sup><i>that</i> at the time you hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, <i>and</i> psaltery, in symphony with all kinds of music, you shall fall down and worship the gold image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up; </span>
<span class="verse da_3_6"><sup>6</sup>and whoever does not fall down and worship shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 29:22; Ezek. 22:18–22; Matt. 13:42, 50; Rev. 9:2; 13:15; 14:11">⚓</a>be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>So at that time, when all the people heard the sound of the horn, flute, harp, <i>and</i> lyre, in symphony with all kinds of music, all the people, nations, and languages fell down <i>and</i> worshiped the gold image which King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Daniel’s Friends Disobey the King</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>Therefore at that time certain Chaldeans <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 4:12–16; Esth. 3:8, 9; Dan. 6:12, 13">⚓</a>came forward and accused the Jews. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_9"><sup>9</sup>They spoke and said to King Nebuchadnezzar, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 2:4; 5:10; 6:6, 21">⚓</a>“O king, live forever! </span>
<span class="verse da_3_10"><sup>10</sup>You, O king, have made a decree that everyone who hears the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, <i>and</i> psaltery, in symphony with all kinds of music, shall fall down and worship the gold image; </span>
<span class="verse da_3_11"><sup>11</sup>and whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_12"><sup>12</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 2:49">⚓</a>There are certain Jews whom you have set over the affairs of the province of Babylon: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego; these men, O king, have <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 1:8; 6:12, 13">⚓</a>not paid due regard to you. They do not serve your gods or worship the gold image which you have set up.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar, in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 2:12; 3:19">⚓</a>rage and fury, gave the command to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego. So they brought these men before the king. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_14"><sup>14</sup>Nebuchadnezzar spoke, saying to them, “<i>Is</i> <i>it</i> true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego, <i>that</i> you do not serve my gods or worship the gold image which I have set up? </span>
<span class="verse da_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Now if you are ready at the time you hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, <i>and</i> psaltery, in symphony with all kinds of music, and you fall down and worship the image which I have made, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 32:32; Luke 13:9">⚓</a><i>good!</i> But if you do not worship, you shall be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 5:2; 2 Kin. 18:35; Is. 36:18–20; Dan. 2:47">⚓</a>And who <i>is</i> the god who will deliver you from my hands?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego answered and said to the king, “O Nebuchadnezzar, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Matt. 10:19)">⚓</a>we have no need to answer you in this matter. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_17"><sup>17</sup>If that <i>is</i> <i>the</i> <i>case,</i> our <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 5:19; (Ps. 27:1, 2; Is. 26:3, 4); Jer. 1:8; 15:20, 21; Dan. 6:19–22">⚓</a>God whom we serve is able to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 17:37; Jer. 1:8; 15:20, 21; 42:11; Dan. 6:16, 19–22; Mic. 7:7; 2 Cor. 1:10">⚓</a>deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and He will deliver <i>us</i> from your hand, O king. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_18"><sup>18</sup>But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 13:15">⚓</a>worship the gold image which you have set up.”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saved in Fiery Trial</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_3_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury, and the expression on his face changed toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego. He spoke and commanded that they heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_20"><sup>20</sup>And he commanded certain mighty men of valor who <i>were</i> in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego, <i>and</i> cast <i>them</i> into the burning fiery furnace. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_21"><sup>21</sup>Then these men were bound in their coats, their trousers, their turbans, and their <i>other</i> garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_22"><sup>22</sup>Therefore, because the king’s command was urgent, and the furnace exceedingly hot, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_23"><sup>23</sup>And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished; and he rose in haste <i>and</i> spoke, saying to his counselors, “Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the fire?”<br/> They answered and said to the king, “True, O king.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_25"> <sup>25</sup>“Look!” he answered, “I see four men loose, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Ps. 91:3–9); Is. 43:2">⚓</a>walking in the midst of the fire; and they are not hurt, and the form of the fourth is like <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 1:6; 38:7; (Ps. 34:7); Dan. 3:28">⚓</a>the Son of God.”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Nebuchadnezzar Praises God</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_3_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then Nebuchadnezzar went near the mouth of the burning fiery furnace <i>and</i> spoke, saying, “Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego, servants of the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Dan. 4:2, 3, 17, 34, 35)">⚓</a>Most High God, come out, and come <i>here.</i>” Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego came from the midst of the fire. </span>
<span class="verse da_3_27"><sup>27</sup>And the satraps, administrators, governors, and the king’s counselors gathered together, and they saw these men <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Is. 43:2); Heb. 11:34">⚓</a>on whose bodies the fire had no power; the hair of their head was not singed nor were their garments affected, and the smell of fire was not on them.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_28"> <sup>28</sup>Nebuchadnezzar spoke, saying, “Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego, who sent His <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Ps. 34:7, 8); Is. 37:36; (Jer. 17:7); Dan. 6:22, 23; Acts 5:19; 12:7">⚓</a>Angel and delivered His servants who trusted in Him, and they have frustrated the king’s word, and yielded their bodies, that they should not serve nor worship any god except their own God! </span>
<span class="verse da_3_29"><sup>29</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 6:26">⚓</a>Therefore I make a decree that any people, nation, or language which speaks anything amiss against the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 2:46, 47; 4:34–37">⚓</a>God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego shall be <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 6:11; Dan. 2:5">⚓</a>cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made an ash heap; <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 6:27">⚓</a>because there is no other God who can deliver like this.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_3_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-Nego in the province of Babylon.<br/></span>
