---
translation: NKJV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1></div>
<span class="verse da_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Also <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 9:1">⚓</a>in the first year of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 5:31">⚓</a>Darius the Mede, I, <i>even</i> I, stood up to confirm and strengthen him.) </span>
<span class="verse da_11_2"><sup>2</sup>And now I will tell you the truth: Behold, three more kings will arise in Persia, and the fourth shall be far richer than <i>them</i> all; by his strength, through his riches, he shall stir up all against the realm of Greece. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_3"><sup>3</sup>Then <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 7:6; 8:5">⚓</a>a mighty king shall arise, who shall rule with great dominion, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:4; 11:16, 36">⚓</a>do according to his will. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_4"><sup>4</sup>And when he has arisen, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 49:36; Ezek. 37:9; Dan. 7:2; 8:8; Zech. 2:6; Rev. 7:1">⚓</a>his kingdom shall be broken up and divided toward the four winds of heaven, but not among his posterity <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:22">⚓</a>nor according to his dominion with which he ruled; for his kingdom shall be uprooted, even for others besides these.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Warring Kings of North and South</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_11_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Also the king of the South shall become strong, as well as <i>one</i> of his princes; and he shall gain power over him and have dominion. His dominion <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> a great dominion. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_6"><sup>6</sup>And at the end of <i>some</i> years they shall join forces, for the daughter of the king of the South shall go to the king of the North to make an agreement; but she shall not retain the power of her authority, and neither he nor his authority shall stand; but she shall be given up, with those who brought her, and with him who begot her, and with him who strengthened her in <i>those</i> times. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_7"><sup>7</sup>But from a branch of her roots <i>one</i> shall arise in his place, who shall come with an army, enter the fortress of the king of the North, and deal with them and prevail. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_8"><sup>8</sup>And he shall also carry their gods captive to Egypt, with their princes <i>and</i> their precious articles of silver and gold; and he shall continue <i>more</i> years than the king of the North.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Also <i>the</i> <i>king</i> <i>of</i> <i>the</i> <i>North</i> shall come to the kingdom of the king of the South, but shall return to his own land. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_10"><sup>10</sup>However his sons shall stir up strife, and assemble a multitude of great forces; and <i>one</i> shall certainly come <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 8:8; Jer. 46:7, 8; 51:42; Dan. 9:26; 11:26, 40">⚓</a>and overwhelm and pass through; then he shall return <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 11:7">⚓</a>to his fortress and stir up strife.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_11"> <sup>11</sup>“And the king of the South shall be <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 16:14">⚓</a>moved with rage, and go out and fight with him, with the king of the North, who shall muster a great multitude; but the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Ps. 33:10, 16)">⚓</a>multitude shall be given into the hand of his <i>enemy.</i></span>
<span class="verse da_11_12"><sup>12</sup>When he has taken away the multitude, his heart will be lifted up; and he will cast down tens of thousands, but he will not prevail. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_13"><sup>13</sup>For the king of the North will return and muster a multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come at the end of some years with a great army and much equipment.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Now in those times many shall rise up against the king of the South. Also, violent men of your people shall exalt themselves in fulfillment of the vision, but they shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 9:13">⚓</a>fall. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_15"><sup>15</sup>So the king of the North shall come and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 6:6; Ezek. 4:2; 17:17">⚓</a>build a siege mound, and take a fortified city; and the forces of the South shall not withstand <i>him.</i> Even his choice troops <i>shall</i> <i>have</i> no strength to resist. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_16"><sup>16</sup>But he who comes against him <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:4, 7">⚓</a>shall do according to his own will, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 1:5">⚓</a>no one shall stand against him. He shall stand in the Glorious Land with destruction in his power.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_17"> <sup>17</sup>“He shall also <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 12:17; 2 Chr. 20:3; Ezek. 4:3, 7">⚓</a>set his face to enter with the strength of his whole kingdom, and upright ones with him; thus shall he do. And he shall give him the daughter of women to destroy it; but she shall not stand <i>with</i> <i>him,</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 9:26">⚓</a>or be for him. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_18"><sup>18</sup>After this he shall turn his face to the coastlands, and shall take many. But a ruler shall bring the reproach against them to an end; and with the reproach removed, he shall turn back on him. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_19"><sup>19</sup>Then he shall turn his face toward the fortress of his own land; but he shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 27:2; Jer. 46:6">⚓</a>stumble and fall, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 20:8; Ps. 37:36; Ezek. 26:21">⚓</a>and not be found.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_20"> <sup>20</sup>“There shall arise in his place one who imposes taxes <i>on</i> the glorious kingdom; but within a few days he shall be destroyed, but not in anger or in battle. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_21"><sup>21</sup>And in his place <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 7:8">⚓</a>shall arise a vile person, to whom they will not give the honor of royalty; but he shall come in peaceably, and seize the kingdom by intrigue. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_22"><sup>22</sup>With the force of a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 9:26">⚓</a>flood they shall be swept away from before him and be broken, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:10, 11">⚓</a>and also the prince of the covenant. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_23"><sup>23</sup>And after the league <i>is</i> <i>made</i> with him <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:25">⚓</a>he shall act deceitfully, for he shall come up and become strong with a small <i>number</i> <i>of</i> people. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_24"><sup>24</sup>He shall enter peaceably, even into the richest places of the province; and he shall do <i>what</i> his fathers have not done, nor his forefathers: he shall disperse among them the plunder, spoil, and riches; and he shall devise his plans against the strongholds, but <i>only</i> for a time.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_25"> <sup>25</sup>“He shall stir up his power and his courage against the king of the South with a great army. And the king of the South shall be stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army; but he shall not stand, for they shall devise plans against him. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_26"><sup>26</sup>Yes, those who eat of the portion of his delicacies shall destroy him; his army shall be swept away, and many shall fall down slain. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_27"><sup>27</sup>Both these kings’ hearts <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> bent on evil, and they shall speak lies at the same table; but it shall not prosper, for the end <i>will</i> still <i>be</i> at the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:19; Hab. 2:3">⚓</a>appointed time. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_28"><sup>28</sup>While returning to his land with great riches, his heart shall be <i>moved</i> against the holy covenant; so he shall do <i>damage</i> and return to his own land.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Northern King’s Blasphemies</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_11_29"> <sup>29</sup>“At the appointed time he shall return and go toward the south; but it shall not be like the former or the latter. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_30"><sup>30</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 10:4; Num. 24:24; Is. 23:1, 12; Jer. 2:10">⚓</a>For ships from Cyprus shall come against him; therefore he shall be grieved, and return in rage against the holy covenant, and do <i>damage.</i><br/> “So he shall return and show regard for those who forsake the holy covenant. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_31"><sup>31</sup>And forces shall be mustered by him, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 8:11–13; 12:11">⚓</a>and they shall defile the sanctuary fortress; then they shall take away the daily <i>sacrifices,</i> and place <i>there</i> the abomination of desolation. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_32"><sup>32</sup>Those who do wickedly against the covenant he shall corrupt with flattery; but the people who know their God shall be strong, and carry out <i>great</i> <i>exploits.</i></span>
<span class="verse da_11_33"><sup>33</sup>And those of the people who understand shall instruct many; yet <i>for</i> <i>many</i> days they shall fall by sword and flame, by captivity and plundering. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_34"><sup>34</sup>Now when they fall, they shall be aided with a little help; but many shall join with them by intrigue. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_35"><sup>35</sup>And <i>some</i> of those of understanding shall fall, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Deut. 8:16; Prov. 17:3); Dan. 12:10; Zech. 13:9; Mal. 3:2, 3">⚓</a>to refine them, purify <i>them,</i> and make <i>them</i> white, <i>until</i> the time of the end; because <i>it</i> <i>is</i> still for the appointed time.<br/></span>
<span class="verse da_11_36"> <sup>36</sup>“Then the king shall do according to his own will: he shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 7:8, 25">⚓</a>exalt and magnify himself above every god, shall speak blasphemies against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the wrath has been accomplished; for what has been determined shall be done. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_37"><sup>37</sup>He shall regard neither the God of his fathers nor the desire of women, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 14:13; 2 Thess. 2:4">⚓</a>nor regard any god; for he shall exalt himself above <i>them</i> all. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_38"><sup>38</sup>But in their place he shall honor a god of fortresses; and a god which his fathers did not know he shall honor with gold and silver, with precious stones and pleasant things. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_39"><sup>39</sup>Thus he shall act against the strongest fortresses with a foreign god, which he shall acknowledge, <i>and</i> advance <i>its</i> glory; and he shall cause them to rule over many, and divide the land for gain.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Northern King’s Conquests</h3></div>
<span class="verse da_11_40"> <sup>40</sup>“At the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 11:27, 35; 12:4, 9">⚓</a>time of the end the king of the South shall attack him; and the king of the North shall come against him <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 21:1">⚓</a>like a whirlwind, with chariots, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 38:4; Rev. 9:16">⚓</a>horsemen, and with many ships; and he shall enter the countries, overwhelm <i>them,</i> and pass through. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_41"><sup>41</sup>He shall also enter the Glorious Land, and many <i>countries</i> shall be overthrown; but these shall escape from his hand: <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 11:14">⚓</a>Edom, Moab, and the prominent people of Ammon. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_42"><sup>42</sup>He shall stretch out his hand against the countries, and the land of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Joel 3:19">⚓</a>Egypt shall not escape. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_43"><sup>43</sup>He shall have power over the treasures of gold and silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt; also the Libyans and Ethiopians <i>shall</i> <i>follow</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 11:8">⚓</a>at his heels. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_44"><sup>44</sup>But news from the east and the north shall trouble him; therefore he shall go out with great fury to destroy and annihilate many. </span>
<span class="verse da_11_45"><sup>45</sup>And he shall plant the tents of his palace between the seas and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 48:2">⚓</a>the glorious holy mountain; <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Rev. 19:20">⚓</a>yet he shall come to his end, and no one will help him.<br/></span>
