---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>The Wall Defended Against Enemies</h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>But it so happened, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 2:10, 19">⚓</a>when Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, that he was furious and very indignant, and mocked the Jews. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_2"><sup>2</sup>And he spoke before his brethren and the army of Samaria, and said, “What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they fortify themselves? Will they offer sacrifices? Will they complete it in a day? Will they revive the stones from the heaps of rubbish—<i>stones</i> that are burned?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 2:10, 19">⚓</a>Tobiah the Ammonite <i>was</i> beside him, and he said, “Whatever they build, if even a fox goes up <i>on</i> <i>it,</i> he will break down their stone wall.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_4"> <sup>4</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 123:3, 4">⚓</a>Hear, O our God, for we are despised; <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 79:12; Prov. 3:34">⚓</a>turn their reproach on their own heads, and give them as plunder to a land of captivity! </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_5"><sup>5</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 69:27, 28; 109:14, 15; Jer. 18:23">⚓</a>Do not cover their iniquity, and do not let their sin be blotted out from before You; for they have provoked <i>You</i> to anger before the builders.<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>So we built the wall, and the entire wall was joined together up to half its <i>height,</i> for the people had a mind to work.<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now it happened, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 4:1">⚓</a>when Sanballat, Tobiah, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 2:19">⚓</a>the Arabs, the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the walls of Jerusalem were being restored and the gaps were beginning to be closed, that they became very angry, </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_8"><sup>8</sup>and all of them <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 83:3–5">⚓</a>conspired together to come <i>and</i> attack Jerusalem and create confusion. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_9"><sup>9</sup>Nevertheless <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Ps. 50:15)">⚓</a>we made our prayer to our God, and because of them we set a watch against them day and night.<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Judah said, “The strength of the laborers is failing, and <i>there</i> <i>is</i> so much rubbish that we are not able to build the wall.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>And our adversaries said, “They will neither know nor see anything, till we come into their midst and kill them and cause the work to cease.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_12"> <sup>12</sup>So it was, when the Jews who dwelt near them came, that they told us ten times, “From whatever place you turn, <i>they</i> <i>will</i> <i>be</i> upon us.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>Therefore I positioned <i>men</i> behind the lower parts of the wall, at the openings; and I set the people according to their families, with their swords, their spears, and their bows. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_14"><sup>14</sup>And I looked, and arose and said to the nobles, to the leaders, and to the rest of the people, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Num. 14:9); Deut. 1:29">⚓</a>“Do not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Deut. 10:17)">⚓</a>great and awesome, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 10:12">⚓</a>fight for your brethren, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your houses.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>And it happened, when our enemies heard that it was known to us, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 5:12">⚓</a><i>that</i> God had brought their plot to nothing, that all of us returned to the wall, everyone to his work. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_16"><sup>16</sup>So it was, from that time on, <i>that</i> half of my servants worked at construction, while the other half held the spears, the shields, the bows, and <i>wore</i> armor; and the leaders <i>were</i> behind all the house of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_17"><sup>17</sup>Those who built on the wall, and those who carried burdens, loaded themselves so that with one hand they worked at construction, and with the other held a weapon. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_18"><sup>18</sup>Every one of the builders had his sword girded at his side as he built. And the one who sounded the trumpet <i>was</i> beside me.<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then I said to the nobles, the rulers, and the rest of the people, “The work <i>is</i> great and extensive, and we are separated far from one another on the wall. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_20"><sup>20</sup>Wherever you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 14:14, 25; Deut. 1:30; 3:22; 20:4; Josh. 23:10; 2 Chr. 20:29">⚓</a>Our God will fight for us.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>So we labored in the work, and half of <i>the</i> <i>men</i> held the spears from daybreak until the stars appeared. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_22"><sup>22</sup>At the same time I also said to the people, “Let each man and his servant stay at night in Jerusalem, that they may be our guard by night and a working party by day.” </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_23"><sup>23</sup>So neither I, my brethren, my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me took off our clothes, <i>except</i> that everyone took them off for washing.<br/></span>
