---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>God Judges Ahaziah</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Moab <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 8:2">⚓</a>rebelled against Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 3:5">⚓</a>after the death of Ahab.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 22:40">⚓</a>Ahaziah fell through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria, and was injured; so he sent messengers and said to them, “Go, inquire of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 1:3, 6, 16; Matt. 10:25; Mark 3:22">⚓</a>Baal-Zebub, the god of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 5:10">⚓</a>Ekron, whether I shall recover from this injury.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_3"><sup>3</sup>But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, “Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say to them, ‘<i>Is</i> <i>it</i> because <i>there</i> <i>is</i> no God in Israel <i>that</i> you are going to inquire of Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron?’ </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Now therefore, thus says the Lord: ‘You shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’ ” So Elijah departed.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>And when the messengers returned to him, he said to them, “Why have you come back?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>So they said to him, “A man came up to meet us, and said to us, ‘Go, return to the king who sent you, and say to him, “Thus says the Lord: ‘<i>Is</i> <i>it</i> because <i>there</i> <i>is</i> no God in Israel <i>that</i> you are sending to inquire of Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’ ” ’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then he said to them, “What kind of man <i>was</i> <i>it</i> who came up to meet you and told you these words?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>So they answered him, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Zech. 13:4; Matt. 3:4; Mark 1:6">⚓</a>“A hairy man wearing a leather belt around his waist.”<br/> And he said, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 18:7">⚓</a>“It <i>is</i> Elijah the Tishbite.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty with his fifty men. So he went up to him; and there he was, sitting on the top of a hill. And he spoke to him: “Man of God, the king has said, ‘Come down!’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>So Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, “If I <i>am</i> a man of God, then <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 18:36–38; Luke 9:54">⚓</a>let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men.” And fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_11"><sup>11</sup>Then he sent to him another captain of fifty with his fifty men.<br/> And he answered and said to him: “Man of God, thus has the king said, ‘Come down quickly!’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>So Elijah answered and said to them, “If I <i>am</i> a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men.” And the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Again, he sent a third captain of fifty with his fifty men. And the third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and pleaded with him, and said to him: “Man of God, please let my life and the life of these fifty servants of yours <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 26:21; Ps. 72:14">⚓</a>be precious in your sight. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_14"><sup>14</sup>Look, fire has come down from heaven and burned up the first two captains of fifties with their fifties. But let my life now be precious in your sight.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>And the angel of the Lord said to Elijah, “Go down with him; do not be afraid of him.” So he arose and went down with him to the king. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_16"><sup>16</sup>Then he said to him, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron, <i>is</i> <i>it</i> because <i>there</i> <i>is</i> no God in Israel to inquire of His word? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>So <i>Ahaziah</i> died according to the word of the Lord which Elijah had spoken. Because he had no son, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 22:50; 2 Kin. 8:16; Matt. 1:8">⚓</a>Jehoram became king in his place, in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, <i>are</i> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?<br/></span>
