---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Elisha said, “Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord: <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 7:18, 19">⚓</a>‘Tomorrow about this time a seah of fine flour <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> <i>sold</i> for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_2"> <sup>2</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 5:18; 7:17, 19, 20">⚓</a>So an officer on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God and said, “Look, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 7:11; Mal. 3:10">⚓</a><i>if</i> the Lord would make windows in heaven, could this thing be?”<br/> And he said, “In fact, you shall see <i>it</i> with your eyes, but you shall not eat of it.”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Syrians Flee</h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now there were four leprous men <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Lev. 13:45, 46; Num. 5:2–4; 12:10–14)">⚓</a>at the entrance of the gate; and they said to one another, “Why are we sitting here until we die? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_4"><sup>4</sup>If we say, ‘We will enter the city,’ the famine <i>is</i> in the city, and we shall die there. And if we sit here, we die also. Now therefore, come, let us surrender to the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 6:24">⚓</a>army of the Syrians. If they keep us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall only die.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_5"><sup>5</sup>And they rose at twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians; and when they had come to the outskirts of the Syrian camp, to their surprise no one <i>was</i> there. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_6"><sup>6</sup>For the Lord had caused the army of the Syrians <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Sam. 5:24; 2 Kin. 19:7; Job 15:21">⚓</a>to hear the noise of chariots and the noise of horses—the noise of a great army; so they said to one another, “Look, the king of Israel has hired against us <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 10:29">⚓</a>the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to attack us!” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_7"><sup>7</sup>Therefore they <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 48:4–6; (Prov. 28:1)">⚓</a>arose and fled at twilight, and left the camp intact—their tents, their horses, and their donkeys—and they fled for their lives. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_8"><sup>8</sup>And when these lepers came to the outskirts of the camp, they went into one tent and ate and drank, and carried from it silver and gold and clothing, and went and hid <i>them;</i> then they came back and entered another tent, and carried <i>some</i> from there <i>also,</i> and went and hid <i>it.</i><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then they said to one another, “We are not doing right. This day <i>is</i> a day of good news, and we remain silent. If we wait until morning light, some punishment will come upon us. Now therefore, come, let us go and tell the king’s household.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_10"><sup>10</sup>So they went and called to the gatekeepers of the city, and told them, saying, “We went to the Syrian camp, and surprisingly no one <i>was</i> there, not a human sound—only horses and donkeys tied, and the tents intact.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_11"><sup>11</sup>And the gatekeepers called out, and they told <i>it</i> to the king’s household inside.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>So the king arose in the night and said to his servants, “Let me now tell you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we <i>are</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 6:24–29">⚓</a>hungry; therefore they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, ‘When they come out of the city, we shall catch them alive, and get into the city.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>And one of his servants answered and said, “Please, let several <i>men</i> take five of the remaining horses which are left in the city. Look, they <i>may</i> <i>either</i> <i>become</i> like all the multitude of Israel that are left in it; or indeed, <i>I</i> <i>say,</i> they <i>may</i> <i>become</i> like all the multitude of Israel left from those who are consumed; so let us send them and see.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_14"><sup>14</sup>Therefore they took two chariots with horses; and the king sent them in the direction of the Syrian army, saying, “Go and see.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_15"><sup>15</sup>And they went after them to the Jordan; and indeed all the road <i>was</i> full of garments and weapons which the Syrians had thrown away in their haste. So the messengers returned and told the king. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_16"><sup>16</sup>Then the people went out and plundered the tents of the Syrians. So a seah of fine flour was <i>sold</i> for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 7:1">⚓</a>according to the word of the Lord.<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_17"> <sup>17</sup>Now the king had appointed the officer on whose hand he leaned to have charge of the gate. But the people trampled him in the gate, and he died, just <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 6:32; 7:2">⚓</a>as the man of God had said, who spoke when the king came down to him. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_18"><sup>18</sup>So it happened just as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 7:1">⚓</a>“Two seahs of barley for a shekel, and a seah of fine flour for a shekel, shall be <i>sold</i> tomorrow about this time in the gate of Samaria.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then that officer had answered the man of God, and said, “Now look, <i>if</i> the Lord would make windows in heaven, could such a thing be?”<br/> And he had said, “In fact, you shall see <i>it</i> with your eyes, but you shall not eat of it.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_7_20"><sup>20</sup>And so it happened to him, for the people trampled him in the gate, and he died.<br/></span>
