---
translation: NKJV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
---

<div class="title"><h1>36</h1><h3>Sennacherib Boasts Against the Lord</h3></div>
<span class="verse es_36_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 18:13, 17; 2 Chr. 32:1">⚓</a>it came to pass in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah <i>that</i> Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. </span>
<span class="verse es_36_2"><sup>2</sup>Then the king of Assyria sent <i>the</i> Rabshakeh with a great army from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem. And he stood by the aqueduct from the upper pool, on the highway to the Fuller’s Field. </span>
<span class="verse es_36_3"><sup>3</sup>And <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 22:20">⚓</a>Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 22:15">⚓</a>Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came out to him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse es_36_4"> <sup>4</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 18:19">⚓</a>Then <i>the</i> Rabshakeh said to them, “Say now to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: “What confidence is this in which you trust? </span>
<span class="verse es_36_5"><sup>5</sup>I say you speak of having plans and power for war; but <i>they</i> <i>are</i> mere words. Now in whom do you trust, that you rebel against me? </span>
<span class="verse es_36_6"><sup>6</sup>Look! You are trusting in the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 29:6">⚓</a>staff of this broken reed, Egypt, on which if a man leans, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So <i>is</i> Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 146:3; Is. 30:3, 5, 7">⚓</a>trust in him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse es_36_7"> <sup>7</sup>“But if you say to me, ‘We trust in the Lord our God,’ <i>is</i> <i>it</i> not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away, and said to Judah and Jerusalem, ‘You shall worship before this altar’?” ’ </span>
<span class="verse es_36_8"><sup>8</sup>Now therefore, I urge you, give a pledge to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses—if you are able on your part to put riders on them! </span>
<span class="verse es_36_9"><sup>9</sup>How then will you repel one captain of the least of my master’s servants, and put your trust in Egypt for chariots and horsemen? </span>
<span class="verse es_36_10"><sup>10</sup>Have I now come up without the Lord against this land to destroy it? The Lord said to me, ‘Go up against this land, and destroy it.’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse es_36_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to <i>the</i> Rabshakeh, “Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand <i>it;</i> and do not speak to us in Hebrew in the hearing of the people who <i>are</i> on the wall.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse es_36_12"> <sup>12</sup>But <i>the</i> Rabshakeh said, “Has my master sent me to your master and to you to speak these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, who will eat and drink their own waste with you?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse es_36_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then <i>the</i> Rabshakeh stood and called out with a loud voice in Hebrew, and said, “Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria! </span>
<span class="verse es_36_14"><sup>14</sup>Thus says the king: ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you; </span>
<span class="verse es_36_15"><sup>15</sup>nor let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, “The Lord will surely deliver us; this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.” ’ </span>
<span class="verse es_36_16"><sup>16</sup>Do not listen to Hezekiah; for thus says the king of Assyria: ‘Make <i>peace</i> with me <i>by</i> <i>a</i> present and come out to me; <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 4:25; Mic. 4:4; Zech. 3:10">⚓</a>and every one of you eat from his own vine and every one from his own fig tree, and every one of you drink the waters of his own cistern; </span>
<span class="verse es_36_17"><sup>17</sup>until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards. </span>
<span class="verse es_36_18"><sup>18</sup><i>Beware</i> lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, “The Lord will deliver us.” Has any one of the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 19:12; Is. 37:12">⚓</a>gods of the nations delivered its land from the hand of the king of Assyria? </span>
<span class="verse es_36_19"><sup>19</sup>Where <i>are</i> the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where <i>are</i> the gods of Sepharvaim? Indeed, have they delivered <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 17:6">⚓</a>Samaria from my hand? </span>
<span class="verse es_36_20"><sup>20</sup>Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their countries from my hand, that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem from my hand?’ ”<br/></span>
<span class="verse es_36_21"> <sup>21</sup>But they held their peace and answered him not a word; for the king’s commandment was, “Do not answer him.” </span>
<span class="verse es_36_22"><sup>22</sup>Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who <i>was</i> over the household, Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with <i>their</i> clothes torn, and told him the words of <i>the</i> Rabshakeh.<br/></span>
