---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ezra 
bookNumber: 15
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Resistance to Rebuilding the Temple</h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now when <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 4:7–9">⚓</a>the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the descendants of the captivity were building the temple of the Lord God of Israel, </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_2"><sup>2</sup>they came to Zerubbabel and the heads of the fathers’ <i>houses,</i> and said to them, “Let us build with you, for we seek your God as you <i>do;</i> and we have sacrificed to Him <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 17:24; 19:37; Ezra 4:10">⚓</a>since the days of Esarhaddon king of Assyria, who brought us here.” </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_3"><sup>3</sup>But Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the rest of the heads of the fathers’ <i>houses</i> of Israel said to them, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Neh. 2:20">⚓</a>“You may do nothing with us to build a house for our God; but we alone will build to the Lord God of Israel, as <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 1:1–4">⚓</a>King Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.” </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_4"><sup>4</sup>Then <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 3:3">⚓</a>the people of the land tried to discourage the people of Judah. They troubled them in building, </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_5"><sup>5</sup>and hired counselors against them to frustrate their purpose all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 5:5; 6:1">⚓</a>Darius king of Persia.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rebuilding of Jerusalem Opposed</h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>In the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>In the days of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 7:1, 7, 21">⚓</a>Artaxerxes also, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabel, and the rest of their companions wrote to Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the letter <i>was</i> written in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 18:26">⚓</a>Aramaic script, and translated into the Aramaic language. </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_8"><sup>8</sup>Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to King Artaxerxes in this fashion:<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_9">  <sup>9</sup>From Rehum the commander, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions—<i>representatives</i> of <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 17:30, 31">⚓</a>the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the people of Persia and Erech and Babylon and Shushan, the Dehavites, the Elamites, </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_10">  <sup>10</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 17:24; Ezra 4:1">⚓</a>and the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnapper took captive and settled in the cities of Samaria and the remainder beyond the River —<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 4:11, 17; 7:12">⚓</a>and so forth.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>(This <i>is</i> a copy of the letter that they sent him)<br/>  To King Artaxerxes from your servants, the men <i>of</i> <i>the</i> <i>region</i> beyond the River, and so forth:<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_12">   <sup>12</sup>Let it be known to the king that the Jews who came up from you have come to us at Jerusalem, and are building the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 36:13">⚓</a>rebellious and evil city, and are finishing <i>its</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 5:3, 9">⚓</a>walls and repairing the foundations. </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_13">   <sup>13</sup>Let it now be known to the king that, if this city is built and the walls completed, they will not pay <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezra 4:20; 7:24">⚓</a>tax, tribute, or custom, and the king’s treasury will be diminished.</span>
<span class="verse exo_4_14">   <sup>14</sup>Now because we receive support from the palace, it was not proper for us to see the king’s dishonor; therefore we have sent and informed the king,</span>
<span class="verse exo_4_15">   <sup>15</sup>that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers. And you will find in the book of the records and know that this city <i>is</i> a rebellious city, harmful to kings and provinces, and that they have incited sedition within the city in former times, for which cause this city was destroyed.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_16">   <sup>16</sup>We inform the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls are completed, the result will be that you will have no dominion beyond the River.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>The king sent an answer:<br/>  To Rehum the commander, <i>to</i> Shimshai the scribe, <i>to</i> the rest of their companions who dwell in Samaria, and <i>to</i> the remainder beyond the River:<br/>   Peace, and so forth.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_18">   <sup>18</sup>The letter which you sent to us has been clearly read before me. </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_19">   <sup>19</sup>And I gave the command, and a search has been made, and it was found that this city in former times has revolted against kings, and rebellion and sedition have been fostered in it.</span>
<span class="verse exo_4_20">   <sup>20</sup>There have also been mighty kings over Jerusalem, who have <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 4:21; 1 Chr. 18:3; Ps. 72:8">⚓</a>ruled over all <i>the</i> <i>region</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 15:18; Josh. 1:4">⚓</a>beyond the River; and tax, tribute, and custom were paid to them.</span>
<span class="verse exo_4_21">   <sup>21</sup>Now give the command to make these men cease, that this city may not be built until the command is given by me.<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_22">   <sup>22</sup>Take heed now that you do not fail to do this. Why should damage increase to the hurt of the kings?<br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_4_23"> <sup>23</sup>Now when the copy of King Artaxerxes’ letter <i>was</i> read before Rehum, Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem against the Jews, and by force of arms made them cease. </span>
<span class="verse exo_4_24"><sup>24</sup>Thus the work of the house of God which <i>is</i> at Jerusalem ceased, and it was discontinued until the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia.<br/></span>
