---
translation: NKJV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>The Law Concerning Leprosy</h3></div>
<span class="verse le_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: </span>
<span class="verse le_13_2"><sup>2</sup>“When a man has on the skin of his body a swelling, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 28:27; Is. 3:17">⚓</a>a scab, or a bright spot, and it becomes on the skin of his body like a leprous sore, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 17:8, 9; 24:8; Mal. 2:7; Luke 17:14">⚓</a>then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons the priests. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_3"><sup>3</sup>The priest shall examine the sore on the skin of the body; and if the hair on the sore has turned white, and the sore appears to be deeper than the skin of his body, it is a leprous sore. Then the priest shall examine him, and pronounce him unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_4"><sup>4</sup>But if the bright spot is white on the skin of his body, and does not appear to be deeper than the skin, and its hair has not turned white, then the priest shall isolate the one who has the sore <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 14:8">⚓</a>seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_5"><sup>5</sup>And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day; and indeed if the sore appears to be as it was, and the sore has not spread on the skin, then the priest shall isolate him another seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_6"><sup>6</sup>Then the priest shall examine him again on the seventh day; and indeed if the sore has faded, and the sore has not spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean; it is only a scab, and he <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 11:25; 14:8; (John 13:8, 10)">⚓</a>shall wash his clothes and be clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_7"><sup>7</sup>But if the scab should at all spread over the skin, after he has been seen by the priest for his cleansing, he shall be seen by the priest again. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_8"><sup>8</sup>And if the priest sees that the scab has indeed spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is leprosy.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_9"> <sup>9</sup>“When the leprous sore is on a person, then he shall be brought to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_10"><sup>10</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 12:10, 12; 2 Kin. 5:27; 2 Chr. 26:19, 20">⚓</a>And the priest shall examine him; and indeed if the swelling on the skin is white, and it has turned the hair white, and there is a spot of raw flesh in the swelling, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_11"><sup>11</sup>it is an old leprosy on the skin of his body. The priest shall pronounce him unclean, and shall not isolate him, for he is unclean.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>“And if leprosy breaks out all over the skin, and the leprosy covers all the skin of the one who has the sore, from his head to his foot, wherever the priest looks, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_13"><sup>13</sup>then the priest shall consider; and indeed if the leprosy has covered all his body, he shall pronounce him clean who has the sore. It has all turned <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 4:6">⚓</a>white. He is clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_14"><sup>14</sup>But when raw flesh appears on him, he shall be unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_15"><sup>15</sup>And the priest shall examine the raw flesh and pronounce him to be unclean; for the raw flesh is unclean. It is leprosy. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_16"><sup>16</sup>Or if the raw flesh changes and turns white again, he shall come to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_17"><sup>17</sup>And the priest shall examine him; and indeed if the sore has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him clean who has the sore. He is clean.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>“If the body develops a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 9:9; 15:26">⚓</a>boil in the skin, and it is healed, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_19"><sup>19</sup>and in the place of the boil there comes a white swelling or a bright spot, reddish-white, then it shall be shown to the priest; </span>
<span class="verse le_13_20"><sup>20</sup>and if, when the priest sees it, it indeed appears deeper than the skin, and its hair has turned white, the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous sore which has broken out of the boil. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_21"><sup>21</sup>But if the priest examines it, and indeed there are no white hairs in it, and it is not deeper than the skin, but has faded, then the priest shall isolate him seven days; </span>
<span class="verse le_13_22"><sup>22</sup>and if it should at all spread over the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous sore. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_23"><sup>23</sup>But if the bright spot stays in one place, and has not spread, it is the scar of the boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Or if the body receives a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 3:24">⚓</a>burn on its skin by fire, and the raw flesh of the burn becomes a bright spot, reddish-white or white, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_25"><sup>25</sup>then the priest shall examine it; and indeed if the hair of the bright spot has turned white, and it appears deeper than the skin, it is leprosy broken out in the burn. Therefore the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous sore. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_26"><sup>26</sup>But if the priest examines it, and indeed there are no white hairs in the bright spot, and it is not deeper than the skin, but has faded, then the priest shall isolate him seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_27"><sup>27</sup>And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day. If it has at all spread over the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous sore. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_28"><sup>28</sup>But if the bright spot stays in one place, and has not spread on the skin, but has faded, it is a swelling from the burn. The priest shall pronounce him clean, for it is the scar from the burn.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_29"> <sup>29</sup>“If a man or woman has a sore on the head or the beard, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_30"><sup>30</sup>then the priest shall examine the sore; and indeed if it appears deeper than the skin, and there is in it thin yellow hair, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a scaly leprosy of the head or beard. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_31"><sup>31</sup>But if the priest examines the scaly sore, and indeed it does not appear deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall isolate the one who has the scale seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_32"><sup>32</sup>And on the seventh day the priest shall examine the sore; and indeed if the scale has not spread, and there is no yellow hair in it, and the scale does not appear deeper than the skin, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_33"><sup>33</sup>he shall shave himself, but the scale he shall not shave. And the priest shall isolate the one who has the scale another seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_34"><sup>34</sup>On the seventh day the priest shall examine the scale; and indeed if the scale has not spread over the skin, and does not appear deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. He shall wash his clothes and be clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_35"><sup>35</sup>But if the scale should at all spread over the skin after his cleansing, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_36"><sup>36</sup>then the priest shall examine him; and indeed if the scale has spread over the skin, the priest need not seek for yellow hair. He is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_37"><sup>37</sup>But if the scale appears to be at a standstill, and there is black hair grown up in it, the scale has healed. He is clean, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_38"> <sup>38</sup>“If a man or a woman has bright spots on the skin of the body, specifically white bright spots, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_39"><sup>39</sup>then the priest shall look; and indeed if the bright spots on the skin of the body are dull white, it is a white spot that grows on the skin. He is clean.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_40"> <sup>40</sup>“As for the man whose hair has fallen from his head, he is bald, but he is clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_41"><sup>41</sup>He whose hair has fallen from his forehead, he is bald on the forehead, but he is clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_42"><sup>42</sup>And if there is on the bald head or bald <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 26:19">⚓</a>forehead a reddish-white sore, it is leprosy breaking out on his bald head or his bald forehead. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_43"><sup>43</sup>Then the priest shall examine it; and indeed if the swelling of the sore is reddish-white on his bald head or on his bald forehead, as the appearance of leprosy on the skin of the body, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_44"><sup>44</sup>he is a leprous man. He is unclean. The priest shall surely pronounce him unclean; his sore is on his <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 1:5">⚓</a>head.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_45"> <sup>45</sup>“Now the leper on whom the sore is, his clothes shall be torn and his head <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 10:6; 21:10">⚓</a>bare; and he shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 24:17, 22; Mic. 3:7">⚓</a>cover his mustache, and cry, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Is. 6:5; 64:6; Lam. 4:15; Luke 5:8">⚓</a>‘Unclean! Unclean!’ </span>
<span class="verse le_13_46"><sup>46</sup>He shall be unclean. All the days he has the sore he shall be unclean. He is unclean, and he shall dwell alone; his dwelling shall be <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 5:1–4; 12:14; 2 Kin. 7:3; 15:5; 2 Chr. 26:21; Ps. 38:11; Luke 17:12">⚓</a>outside the camp.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Law Concerning Leprous Garments</h3></div>
<span class="verse le_13_47"> <sup>47</sup>“Also, if a garment has a leprous plague in it, whether it is a woolen garment or a linen garment, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_48"><sup>48</sup>whether it is in the warp or woof of linen or wool, whether in leather or in anything made of leather, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_49"><sup>49</sup>and if the plague is greenish or reddish in the garment or in the leather, whether in the warp or in the woof, or in anything made of leather, it is a leprous plague and shall be shown to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_50"><sup>50</sup>The priest shall examine the plague and isolate that which has the plague seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_51"><sup>51</sup>And he shall examine the plague on the seventh day. If the plague has spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, in the leather or in anything made of leather, the plague is an <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 14:44">⚓</a>active leprosy. It is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_52"><sup>52</sup>He shall therefore burn that garment in which is the plague, whether warp or woof, in wool or in linen, or anything of leather, for it is an active leprosy; the garment shall be burned in the fire.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_53"> <sup>53</sup>“But if the priest examines it, and indeed the plague has not spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything made of leather, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_54"><sup>54</sup>then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which is the plague; and he shall isolate it another seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_55"><sup>55</sup>Then the priest shall examine the plague after it has been washed; and indeed if the plague has not changed its color, though the plague has not spread, it is unclean, and you shall burn it in the fire; it continues eating away, whether the damage is outside or inside. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_56"><sup>56</sup>If the priest examines it, and indeed the plague has faded after washing it, then he shall tear it out of the garment, whether out of the warp or out of the woof, or out of the leather. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_57"><sup>57</sup>But if it appears again in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything made of leather, it is a spreading plague; you shall burn with fire that in which is the plague. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_58"><sup>58</sup>And if you wash the garment, either warp or woof, or whatever is made of leather, if the plague has disappeared from it, then it shall be washed a second time, and shall be clean.<br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_59"> <sup>59</sup>“This is the law of the leprous plague in a garment of wool or linen, either in the warp or woof, or in anything made of leather, to pronounce it clean or to pronounce it unclean.”<br/></span>
