---
translation: NKJV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
---

<div class="title"><h1>40</h1><h3>Jeremiah with Gedaliah the Governor</h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_40_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 39:9, 11">⚓</a>after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he had taken him bound in chains among all who were carried away captive from Jerusalem and Judah, who were carried away captive to Babylon.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_2"> <sup>2</sup>And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 50:7">⚓</a>said to him: “The Lord your God has pronounced this doom on this place. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_3"><sup>3</sup>Now the Lord has brought <i>it,</i> and has done just as He said. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 29:24, 25; Jer. 50:7; Dan. 9:11; (Rom. 2:5)">⚓</a>Because you <i>people</i> have sinned against the Lord, and not obeyed His voice, therefore this thing has come upon you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_4"><sup>4</sup>And now look, I free you this day from the chains that <i>were</i> on your hand. <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 39:12">⚓</a>If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will look after you. But if it seems wrong for you to come with me to Babylon, remain here. See, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 20:15">⚓</a>all the land <i>is</i> before you; wherever it seems good and convenient for you to go, go there.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_5"> <sup>5</sup>Now while Jeremiah had not yet gone back, <i>Nebuzaradan</i> <i>said,</i> “Go back to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 39:14">⚓</a>Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 25:22; Jer. 41:10">⚓</a>whom the king of Babylon has made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people. Or go wherever it seems convenient for you to go.” So the captain of the guard gave him rations and a gift and let him go. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_6"><sup>6</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 39:14">⚓</a>Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 20:1; 1 Sam. 7:5; 2 Chr. 16:6">⚓</a>Mizpah, and dwelt with him among the people who were left in the land.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_7"> <sup>7</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 25:23, 24">⚓</a>And when all the captains of the armies who <i>were</i> in the fields, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed to him men, women, children, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 39:10">⚓</a>the poorest of the land who had not been carried away captive to Babylon, </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_8"><sup>8</sup>then they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah—<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 41:1–10">⚓</a>Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 41:11; 43:2">⚓</a>Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 42:1">⚓</a>Jezaniah the son of a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 3:14; Josh. 12:5; 2 Sam. 10:6">⚓</a>Maachathite, they and their men. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_9"><sup>9</sup>And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, took an oath before them and their men, saying, “Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 27:11; 38:17–20">⚓</a>well with you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_10"><sup>10</sup>As for me, I will indeed dwell at Mizpah and serve the Chaldeans who come to us. But you, gather wine and summer fruit and oil, put <i>them</i> in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you have taken.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_11"><sup>11</sup>Likewise, when all the Jews who <i>were</i> in Moab, among the Ammonites, in Edom, and who <i>were</i> in all the countries, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_12"><sup>12</sup>then all the Jews <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 43:5">⚓</a>returned out of all places where they had been driven, and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah, and gathered wine and summer fruit in abundance.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_13"> <sup>13</sup>Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces that <i>were</i> in the fields came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_14"><sup>14</sup>and said to him, “Do you certainly know that <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 41:10">⚓</a>Baalis the king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to murder you?” But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam did not believe them.<br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke secretly to Gedaliah in Mizpah, saying, “Let me go, please, and I will kill Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no one will know <i>it.</i> Why should he murder you, so that all the Jews who are gathered to you would be scattered, and the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 42:2">⚓</a>remnant in Judah perish?”<br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_16"> <sup>16</sup>But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, “You shall not do this thing, for you speak falsely concerning Ishmael.”<br/></span>
