---
translation: NKJV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>The Tabernacle</h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Moreover <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 36:8–19">⚓</a>you shall make the tabernacle <i>with</i> ten curtains <i>of</i> fine woven linen and blue, purple, and scarlet <i>thread;</i> with artistic designs of cherubim you shall weave them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_2"><sup>2</sup>The length of each curtain <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits. And every one of the curtains shall have the same measurements. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_3"><sup>3</sup>Five curtains shall be coupled to one another, and <i>the</i> <i>other</i> five curtains <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> coupled to one another. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_4"><sup>4</sup>And you shall make loops of blue <i>yarn</i> on the edge of the curtain on the selvedge of <i>one</i> set, and likewise you shall do on the outer edge of <i>the</i> <i>other</i> curtain of the second set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_5"><sup>5</sup>Fifty loops you shall make in the one curtain, and fifty loops you shall make on the edge of the curtain that <i>is</i> on the end of the second set, that the loops may be clasped to one another. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_6"><sup>6</sup>And you shall make fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains together with the clasps, so that it may be one tabernacle.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_7"> <sup>7</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 36:14">⚓</a>“You shall also make curtains of goats’ <i>hair,</i> to be a tent over the tabernacle. You shall make eleven curtains. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_8"><sup>8</sup>The length of each curtain <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; and the eleven curtains shall all have the same measurements. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_9"><sup>9</sup>And you shall couple five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves, and you shall double over the sixth curtain at the forefront of the tent. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_10"><sup>10</sup>You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in <i>one</i> set, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain of the second set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_11"><sup>11</sup>And you shall make fifty bronze clasps, put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_12"><sup>12</sup>The remnant that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_13"><sup>13</sup>And a cubit on one side and a cubit on the other side, of what remains of the length of the curtains of the tent, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and on that side, to cover it.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_14"> <sup>14</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 35:7, 23; 36:19">⚓</a>“You shall also make a covering of ram skins dyed red for the tent, and a covering of badger skins above that.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_15"> <sup>15</sup>“And for the tabernacle you shall <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 36:20–34">⚓</a>make the boards of acacia wood, standing upright. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_16"><sup>16</sup>Ten cubits <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> the length of a board, and a cubit and a half <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> the width of each board. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_17"><sup>17</sup>Two tenons <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> in each board for binding one to another. Thus you shall make for all the boards of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_18"><sup>18</sup>And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_19"><sup>19</sup>You shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards: two sockets under each of the boards for its two tenons. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_20"><sup>20</sup>And for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, <i>there</i> <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> twenty boards </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_21"><sup>21</sup>and their forty sockets of silver: two sockets under each of the boards. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_22"><sup>22</sup>For the far side of the tabernacle, westward, you shall make six boards. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_23"><sup>23</sup>And you shall also make two boards for the two back corners of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_24"><sup>24</sup>They shall be coupled together at the bottom and they shall be coupled together at the top by one ring. Thus it shall be for both of them. They shall be for the two corners. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_25"><sup>25</sup>So there shall be eight boards with their sockets of silver—sixteen sockets—two sockets under each of the boards.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_26"> <sup>26</sup>“And you shall make bars of acacia wood: five for the boards on one side of the tabernacle, </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_27"><sup>27</sup>five bars for the boards on the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the far side westward. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_28"><sup>28</sup>The <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 36:33">⚓</a>middle bar shall pass through the midst of the boards from end to end. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_29"><sup>29</sup>You shall overlay the boards with gold, make their rings of gold <i>as</i> holders for the bars, and overlay the bars with gold. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_30"><sup>30</sup>And you shall raise up the tabernacle <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 25:9, 40; 27:8; 39:32; Num. 8:4; Acts 7:44; (Heb. 8:2, 5)">⚓</a>according to its pattern which you were shown on the mountain.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_31"> <sup>31</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 27:21; 36:35–38; Lev. 16:2; 2 Chr. 3:14; Matt. 27:51; Heb. 9:3; 10:20">⚓</a>“You shall make a veil woven of blue, purple, and scarlet <i>thread,</i> and fine woven linen. It shall be woven with an artistic design of cherubim. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_32"><sup>32</sup>You shall hang it upon the four pillars of acacia <i>wood</i> overlaid with gold. Their hooks <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> gold, upon four sockets of silver. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_33"><sup>33</sup>And you shall hang the veil from the clasps. Then you shall bring <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 25:10–16; 40:21">⚓</a>the ark of the Testimony in there, behind the veil. The veil shall be a divider for you between <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 16:2; Heb. 9:2, 3">⚓</a>the holy <i>place</i> and the Most Holy. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_34"><sup>34</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 25:17–22; 40:20; Heb. 9:5">⚓</a>You shall put the mercy seat upon the ark of the Testimony in the Most Holy. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_35"><sup>35</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 40:22; Heb. 9:2">⚓</a>You shall set the table outside the veil, and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 40:24">⚓</a>the lampstand across from the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; and you shall put the table on the north side.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_36"> <sup>36</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 36:37">⚓</a>“You shall make a screen for the door of the tabernacle, <i>woven</i> <i>of</i> blue, purple, and scarlet <i>thread,</i> and fine woven linen, made by a weaver. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_37"><sup>37</sup>And you shall make for the screen <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 36:38">⚓</a>five pillars of acacia <i>wood,</i> and overlay them with gold; their hooks <i>shall</i> <i>be</i> gold, and you shall cast five sockets of bronze for them.<br/></span>
