---
translation: NKJV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
---

<div class="title"><h1>36</h1></div>
<span class="verse xu_36_1"> <sup>1</sup>“And Bezalel and Aholiab, and every <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 28:3; 31:6; 35:10, 35">⚓</a>gifted artisan in whom the Lord has put wisdom and understanding, to know how to do all manner of work for the service of the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 25:8">⚓</a>sanctuary, shall do according to all that the Lord has commanded.”<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The People Give More than Enough</h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_36_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then Moses called Bezalel and Aholiab, and every gifted artisan in <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 35:21, 26; 1 Chr. 29:5, 9, 17">⚓</a>whose heart the Lord had put wisdom, everyone whose heart was stirred, to come and do the work. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_3"><sup>3</sup>And they received from Moses all the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 35:5">⚓</a>offering which the children of Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 35:27">⚓</a>had brought for the work of the service of making the sanctuary. So they continued bringing to him freewill offerings every morning. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_4"><sup>4</sup>Then all the craftsmen who were doing all the work of the sanctuary came, each from the work he was doing, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_5"><sup>5</sup>and they spoke to Moses, saying, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Chr. 24:14; 31:6–10; (2 Cor. 8:2, 3)">⚓</a>“The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which the Lord commanded <i>us</i> to do.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Moses gave a commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, “Let neither man nor woman do any more work for the offering of the sanctuary.” And the people were restrained from bringing, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_7"><sup>7</sup>for the material they had was sufficient for all the work to be done—indeed too <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kin. 8:64">⚓</a>much.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Building the Tabernacle</h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_36_8"> <sup>8</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:1–14">⚓</a>Then all the gifted artisans among them who worked on the tabernacle made ten curtains woven of fine linen, and of blue, purple, and scarlet <i>thread; with</i> artistic designs of cherubim they made them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_9"><sup>9</sup>The length of each curtain <i>was</i> twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; the curtains <i>were</i> all the same size. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_10"><sup>10</sup>And he coupled five curtains to one another, and <i>the</i> <i>other</i> five curtains he coupled to one another. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_11"><sup>11</sup>He made loops of blue <i>yarn</i> on the edge of the curtain on the selvedge of one set; likewise he did on the outer edge of <i>the</i> <i>other</i> curtain of the second set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_12"><sup>12</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:5">⚓</a>Fifty loops he made on one curtain, and fifty loops he made on the edge of the curtain on the end of the second set; the loops held one <i>curtain</i> to another. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_13"><sup>13</sup>And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains to one another with the clasps, that it might be one tabernacle.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_14"> <sup>14</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:7">⚓</a>He made curtains of goats’ <i>hair</i> for the tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_15"><sup>15</sup>The length of each curtain <i>was</i> thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; the eleven curtains <i>were</i> the same size. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_16"><sup>16</sup>He coupled five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_17"><sup>17</sup>And he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in one set, and fifty loops he made on the edge of the curtain of the second set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_18"><sup>18</sup>He also made fifty bronze clasps to couple the tent together, that it might be one. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_19"><sup>19</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:14">⚓</a>Then he made a covering for the tent of ram skins dyed red, and a covering of badger skins above <i>that.</i><br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_20"> <sup>20</sup>For the tabernacle <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:15–29">⚓</a>he made boards of acacia wood, standing upright. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_21"><sup>21</sup>The length of each board <i>was</i> ten cubits, and the width of each board a cubit and a half. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_22"><sup>22</sup>Each board had two tenons <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:17">⚓</a>for binding one to another. Thus he made for all the boards of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_23"><sup>23</sup>And he made boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_24"><sup>24</sup>Forty sockets of silver he made to go under the twenty boards: two sockets under each of the boards for its two tenons. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_25"><sup>25</sup>And for the other side of the tabernacle, the north side, he made twenty boards </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_26"><sup>26</sup>and their forty sockets of silver: two sockets under each of the boards. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_27"><sup>27</sup>For the west side of the tabernacle he made six boards. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_28"><sup>28</sup>He also made two boards for the two back corners of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_29"><sup>29</sup>And they were coupled at the bottom and coupled together at the top by one ring. Thus he made both of them for the two corners. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_30"><sup>30</sup>So there were eight boards and their sockets—sixteen sockets of silver—two sockets under each of the boards.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_31"> <sup>31</sup>And he made <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:26–29">⚓</a>bars of acacia wood: five for the boards on one side of the tabernacle, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_32"><sup>32</sup>five bars for the boards on the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle on the far side westward. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_33"><sup>33</sup>And he made the middle bar to pass through the boards from one end to the other. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_34"><sup>34</sup>He overlaid the boards with gold, made their rings of gold <i>to</i> <i>be</i> holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_35"> <sup>35</sup>And he made <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:31–37">⚓</a>a veil of blue, purple, and scarlet <i>thread,</i> and fine woven linen; it was worked <i>with</i> an artistic design of cherubim. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_36"><sup>36</sup>He made for it four pillars of acacia <i>wood,</i> and overlaid them with gold, with their hooks of gold; and he cast four sockets of silver for them.<br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_37"> <sup>37</sup>He also made a <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ex. 26:36">⚓</a>screen for the tabernacle door, of blue, purple, and scarlet <i>thread,</i> and fine woven linen, made by a weaver, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_38"><sup>38</sup>and its five pillars with their hooks. And he overlaid their capitals and their rings with gold, but their five sockets <i>were</i> bronze.<br/></span>
