---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Jephthah’s Conflict with Ephraim</h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 8:1">⚓</a>the men of Ephraim gathered together, crossed over toward Zaphon, and said to Jephthah, “Why did you cross over to fight against the people of Ammon, and did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house down on you with fire!”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_12_2"> <sup>2</sup>And Jephthah said to them, “My people and I were in a great struggle with the people of Ammon; and when I called you, you did not deliver me out of their hands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_3"><sup>3</sup>So when I saw that you would not deliver <i>me,</i> I <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 19:5; 28:21; Job 13:14">⚓</a>took my life in my hands and crossed over against the people of Ammon; and the Lord delivered them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against me?” </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_4"><sup>4</sup>Now Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead and fought against Ephraim. And the men of Gilead defeated Ephraim, because they said, “You Gileadites <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 25:10">⚓</a><i>are</i> fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites <i>and</i> among the Manassites.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_5"><sup>5</sup>The Gileadites seized the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 22:11">⚓</a>fords of the Jordan before the Ephraimites <i>arrived.</i> And when <i>any</i> Ephraimite who escaped said, “Let me cross over,” the men of Gilead would say to him, “<i>Are</i> you an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No,” </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_6"><sup>6</sup>then they would say to him, “Then say, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ps. 69:2, 15">⚓</a>‘Shibboleth’!” And he would say, “Sibboleth,” for he could not pronounce <i>it</i> right. Then they would take him and kill him at the fords of the Jordan. There fell at that time forty-two thousand Ephraimites.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in among the cities of Gilead.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ibzan, Elon, and Abdon</h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>After him, Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_9"><sup>9</sup>He had thirty sons. And he gave away thirty daughters in marriage, and brought in thirty daughters from elsewhere for his sons. He judged Israel seven years. </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_10"><sup>10</sup>Then Ibzan died and was buried at Bethlehem.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>After him, Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel. He judged Israel ten years. </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_12"><sup>12</sup>And Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried at Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>After him, Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_14"><sup>14</sup>He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 5:10; 10:4">⚓</a>rode on seventy young donkeys. He judged Israel eight years. </span>
<span class="verse cac_12_15"><sup>15</sup>Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 3:13, 27; 5:14">⚓</a>in the mountains of the Amalekites.<br/></span>
