---
translation: NKJV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Samson and Delilah</h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Samson went to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 15:47">⚓</a>Gaza and saw a harlot there, and went in to her. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_2"><sup>2</sup><i>When</i> the Gazites <i>were</i> <i>told,</i> “Samson has come here!” they <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 23:26; Ps. 118:10–12">⚓</a>surrounded <i>the</i> <i>place</i> and lay in wait for him all night at the gate of the city. They were quiet all night, saying, “In the morning, when it is daylight, we will kill him.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_3"><sup>3</sup>And Samson lay <i>low</i> till midnight; then he arose at midnight, took hold of the doors of the gate of the city and the two gateposts, pulled them up, bar and all, put <i>them</i> on his shoulders, and carried them to the top of the hill that faces Hebron.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>Afterward it happened that he loved a woman in the Valley of Sorek, whose name <i>was</i> Delilah. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_5"><sup>5</sup>And the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Josh. 13:3">⚓</a>lords of the Philistines came up to her and said to her, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 14:15">⚓</a>“Entice him, and find out where his great strength <i>lies,</i> and by what <i>means</i> we may overpower him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and every one of us will give you eleven hundred <i>pieces</i> of silver.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Delilah said to Samson, “Please tell me where your great strength <i>lies,</i> and with what you may be bound to afflict you.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_7"> <sup>7</sup>And Samson said to her, “If they bind me with seven fresh bowstrings, not yet dried, then I shall become weak, and be like any <i>other</i> man.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_8"> <sup>8</sup>So the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings, not yet dried, and she bound him with them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_9"><sup>9</sup>Now <i>men</i> <i>were</i> lying in wait, staying with her in the room. And she said to him, “The Philistines <i>are</i> upon you, Samson!” But he broke the bowstrings as a strand of yarn breaks when it touches fire. So the secret of his strength was not known.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Delilah said to Samson, “Look, you have mocked me and told me lies. Now, please tell me what you may be bound with.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_11"> <sup>11</sup>So he said to her, “If they bind me securely with <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 15:13">⚓</a>new ropes that have never been used, then I shall become weak, and be like any <i>other</i> man.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them, and said to him, “The Philistines <i>are</i> upon you, Samson!” And <i>men</i> <i>were</i> lying in wait, staying in the room. But he broke them off his arms like a thread.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>Delilah said to Samson, “Until now you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me what you may be bound with.”<br/> And he said to her, “If you weave the seven locks of my head into the web of the loom”—<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_14"> <sup>14</sup>So she wove <i>it</i> tightly with the batten of the loom, and said to him, “The Philistines <i>are</i> upon you, Samson!” But he awoke from his sleep, and pulled out the batten and the web from the loom.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then she said to him, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 14:16">⚓</a>“How can you say, ‘I love you,’ when your heart <i>is</i> not with me? You have mocked me these three times, and have not told me where your great strength <i>lies.</i>” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_16"><sup>16</sup>And it came to pass, when she pestered him daily with her words and pressed him, <i>so</i> that his soul was vexed to death, </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_17"><sup>17</sup>that he <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Mic. 7:5)">⚓</a>told her all his heart, and said to her, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 6:5; Judg. 13:5">⚓</a>“No razor has ever come upon my head, for I <i>have</i> <i>been</i> a Nazirite to God from my mother’s womb. If I am shaven, then my strength will leave me, and I shall become weak, and be like any <i>other</i> man.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_18"> <sup>18</sup>When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, “Come up once more, for he has told me all his heart.” So the lords of the Philistines came up to her and brought the money in their hand. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_19"><sup>19</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 7:26, 27">⚓</a>Then she lulled him to sleep on her knees, and called for a man and had him shave off the seven locks of his head. Then she began to torment him, and his strength left him. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_20"><sup>20</sup>And she said, “The Philistines <i>are</i> upon you, Samson!” So he awoke from his sleep, and said, “I will go out as before, at other times, and shake myself free!” But he did not know that the Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 14:9, 42, 43; (Josh. 7:12); 1 Sam. 16:14; 18:12; 28:15, 16; 2 Chr. 15:2">⚓</a>had departed from him.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then the Philistines took him and put out his <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kin. 25:7">⚓</a>eyes, and brought him down to Gaza. They bound him with bronze fetters, and he became a grinder in the prison. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_22"><sup>22</sup>However, the hair of his head began to grow again after it had been shaven.<br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Samson Dies with the Philistines</h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_16_23"> <sup>23</sup>Now the lords of the Philistines gathered together to offer a great sacrifice to <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Sam. 5:2">⚓</a>Dagon their god, and to rejoice. And they said:<br/>  “Our god has delivered into our hands<br/>   Samson our enemy!”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_24"> <sup>24</sup>When the people saw him, they <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dan. 5:4">⚓</a>praised their god; for they said:<br/>  “Our god has delivered into our hands our enemy,<br/>   The destroyer of our land,<br/>   And the one who multiplied our dead.”<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_25"> <sup>25</sup>So it happened, when their hearts were <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 9:27">⚓</a>merry, that they said, “Call for Samson, that he may perform for us.” So they called for Samson from the prison, and he performed for them. And they stationed him between the pillars. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_26"><sup>26</sup>Then Samson said to the lad who held him by the hand, “Let me feel the pillars which support the temple, so that I can lean on them.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_27"><sup>27</sup>Now the temple was full of men and women. All the lords of the Philistines <i>were</i> there—about three thousand men and women on the <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 22:8">⚓</a>roof watching while Samson performed.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Samson called to the Lord, saying, “O Lord God, <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 15:15">⚓</a>remember me, I pray! Strengthen me, I pray, just this once, O God, that I may with one <i>blow</i> take vengeance on the Philistines for my two eyes!” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_29"><sup>29</sup>And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars which supported the temple, and he braced himself against them, one on his right and the other on his left. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_30"><sup>30</sup>Then Samson said, “Let me die with the Philistines!” And he pushed with <i>all</i> <i>his</i> might, and the temple fell on the lords and all the people who <i>were</i> in it. So the dead that he killed at his death were more than he had killed in his life.<br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_31"> <sup>31</sup>And his brothers and all his father’s household came down and took him, and brought <i>him</i> up and <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 13:25">⚓</a>buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of his father Manoah. He had judged Israel <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Judg. 15:20">⚓</a>twenty years.<br/></span>
